
IRAQ


THE HERALD TRIBUNE

The United States and Britain presented a draft UN resolution Monday that calls for a full transfer of sovereignty to Iraq and an initial one-year mandate for the U.S.-led multinational military force, subject to the consent of the transitional government.
.
"The interim Iraqi government will assume total responsibility for its own sovereignty," the British ambassador, Sir Emyr Jones Parry, said before a closed-door Security Council session called to review the proposal. That government is to take office by June 30. The text drew mostly positive comments among ambassadors in the corridors outside the conference room, and was expected to lead fairly quickly to the passage of a resolution. But the timetable from now to June 30, when the United States has promised to hand over additional powers to Iraqis, remains tight, troubled and uncertain. "We are definitely running out of time," said Ambassador Abdallah Baali of Algeria, a council member. "There is no room for error. Not anymore."
.
The draft was presented hours before President George W. Bush - whose approval ratings have continued to decline, according to a new poll released Tuesday - was to launch a parallel effort aimed at reassuring Americans and drawing wider international backing for U.S. efforts in Iraq. A major prime-time speech Monday was to be the first of six such addresses planned. The United States has agreed to leave it largely to a special UN envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, to name leaders of an interim government, though a Brahimi spokesman said Monday that he might not make his May 31 deadline. Still, after weeks of intensive negotiations, the United States and Britain said they had achieved near-consensus among fellow Security Council members.
.
Even Ambassador Gunter Pleuger of Germany, whose country ardently opposed the Iraq war, called the draft text "a good basis for discussions" toward a resolution that will "make clear that we have a new start in Iraq."
.
The draft endorses plans for direct democratic elections to be held by the end of this year "if possible, and in no case later than 31 January 2005." The national assembly thereby elected will have responsibility for drafting a permanent constitution that will permit elections for a permanent government. The text also calls for lifting the arms embargo against Iraq. A broadly supported UN resolution would represent a significant mending of the bitter breach that developed over the U.S.-led march to war. It would also signal a striking new acceptance by the U.S. administration, as it struggles to retake the initiative after weeks of bruising setbacks, of the importance of the world body. The coming period could prove crucial to the administration's hopes for Iraq, and possibly also to Bush's prospects for re-election. His job approval rankings have declined steadily for weeks. A new CBS News poll found that 41 percent of Americans approve of the job he is doing as president, down 3 percentage points in two weeks, and far below the 66 percent who approved a year earlier. Fifty-two percent disapproved of his overall performance in the latest poll, and 61 percent disapproved of his handling of Iraq. With worries over Iraq growing, 65 percent of those polled said that the United States was on the wrong track, equaling the highest number the poll has recorded since it began asking the question nearly 20 years ago. Republicans have not hidden their mounting concerns over Bush's poll numbers; no recent president with such ratings at this point in his presidency was re-elected. In an effort to retake the initiative, Bush planned in his speech to express a firm determination not to be chased from Iraq by the recent chaos, scandal and violence, but also an intent to shift growing levels of responsibility to Iraqis at the fastest reasonable pace, aides said. "We have two choices," said the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, foreshadowing the themes of Bush's speech. "We can work to build a free, democratic and peaceful Iraq, or we can let the terrorists prevail, but the terrorists will not prevail."
.
He said Bush would discuss U.S. efforts in Iraq in five areas: political moves, the elections planned for January, security, reconstruction and diplomatic efforts. For weeks, Britain has worked closely with the United States to write a broadly acceptable draft, and its ambassador to the United Nations emphasized that it envisions a full transfer of sovereignty.
.
"It underlines clearly that all sovereignty will be returned to the Iraqis, that the interim Iraqi government will assume total responsibility for its own sovereignty," Sir Emyr said.
.
McClellan also used the phrase "full sovereignty." But in a qualification that has left some confusion, he said it was only normal that, given its nonelected and temporary nature, the interim government would also have "limited authority."
.
The text reaffirms the UN authorization for the U.S.-led multinational force, but leaves it subject to review by the transitional government 12 months from the date a resolution is adopted. That force was created by a resolution in October. McClellan was asked Monday whether the multinational force would remain under U.S. command - a matter not specifically addressed in the text, but one on which the administration has indicated it will not budge. "Yes, that's what I expect," he said. The text states that the multinational force "shall have authority to take all necessary measures to contribute to the maintenance of security and stability in Iraq including by preventing and deterring terrorism."
.
But the Iraqi government would have the power to ask the multinational force to leave. U.S. officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, recently said as much, while adding that they felt certain no such request would be forthcoming. The British ambassador noted that the draft called for the multinational force to remain in Iraq after June 30 "with the consent, in consultation and in partnership" with the caretaker government. The United States would retain control of Iraqi police and security forces, though they would answer directly to Iraqi commanders. The draft also states that the interim government would control the Development Fund for Iraq, which includes Iraq's oil revenues. Brahimi, who has been working in Iraq since early this month to identify consensus leaders for the caretaker government, may be as much a week behind his May 31 deadline, his spokesman, Ahmad Fawzi, told Bloomberg News.


THE GUARDIAN

George Bush tried last night to persuade an increasingly sceptical American public to rekindle its faith in his project for Iraq, promising he had a clear strategy for a handover of power.

The speech was delivered at a time when Mr Bush is facing approval ratings in the dangerous 40% range - the lowest of his presidency - and when some 64% of the public believe that he has no clear plan for bringing the situation in Iraq to a successful resolution.

Mr Bush tried to shake off those doubts yesterday, telling an audience at the army war college in Pennsylvania: "History is moving, and it will tend toward hope or tend toward tragedy. We will persevere and defeat this enemy and hold this hard-won ground for the realm of liberty."

Yesterday's address coincided with a proposal by Britain and America for a new United Nations resolution authorising the June 30 handover of power in Iraq and a US-led stabilisation force for Iraq.

The US-British resolution calls for a caretaker administration - unelected and appointed by the UN - which will take office by June 30 and govern until elections in approximately six months.

"The interim government of Iraq will assume the responsibility and authority for governing a sovereign Iraq," it says.

The resolution also authorises a US-led military force to stay in Iraq for at least a year. There is no clear timetable for the troops to leave.

Mr Bush lowered expectations by acknowledging that the coming five weeks will see a new eruption in violence, and that he may need to send more troops to Iraq.

"Iraq now faces a critical moment. As the Iraqi people move closer to governing themselves, the terrorists are likely to become more active and more brutal," he said.

He appeared determined to regain control of the domestic political terrain in the run-up to next November's election.

Mr Bush reached out to try to reverse the steady erosion of public support for the war and occupation of Iraq, pledging to demolish the notorious Abu Ghraib prison, where naked and humiliated Iraqis were photographed by American army guards.

He also set out what he called a five-point plan for a handover in Iraq, beginning with the transfer of power to an unelected Iraqi government on June 30, establishment of a US-led protection force, campaign for broader international support, and reconstruction including elections to be held in six months.

"Completing the five steps to Iraqi elected self-government will not be easy," Mr Bush said. "There is likely to be violence before the transfer of sovereignty and after the transfer of sovereignty."

Although Mr Bush was more expansive on his vision for Iraq than he has been in previous appearances, the substance of his plan was still woefully thin, and was seen largely as a concerted effort by Mr Bush to stop the erosion in support for his administration.

The Democratic challenger, John Kerry, has called on the White House to "turn words into action". However, last night's address is merely the first stage of what promises to be a dogged campaign by Mr Bush to turn around public opinion on the Iraq war.

White House aides have said he plans five more such speeches, one each week in the five weeks remaining until the June 30 handover date.

With time running out on Iraq - and Mr Bush just five months away from his own electoral test - the consequences of his decision to go to war are becoming even more stark.

With the death toll among US forces in Iraq now approaching 800, and the Abu Ghraib scandal producing almost daily revelations of fresh abuse, Mr Bush is facing a steady erosion of support.

More alarming for Mr Bush, he is losing support among his fellow Republicans. A poll posted on the Washington Post website last night attributed virtually all of his seven point decline in his approval rating to disaffected Republicans.

Mr Bush also has the burden of defending his defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, for a second time since the first pictures of abuse at Abu Ghraib prison surfaced three weeks ago.

In a blistering appearance on CBS television's 60 minutes on Sunday, General Anthony Zinni, a former commander of US forces in the Middle East, lashed out at Mr Rumsfeld for bungling the war, and said he should be held accountable.

"Somebody screwed up. And at this level and at this stage, it should be evident to everybody that they've screwed up," Mr Zinni said.

Mr Zinni, who served Mr Bush as an envoy to Israel and the Palestinians, broke ranks with the Administration before the war on Iraq. Like other military men, he has been severe in his criticism of Mr Rumsfeld's post-war planning, which called for a far smaller military force than the generals had wanted.

In his new book, Battle Ready, Mr Zinni says the Pentagon's civilian leadership betrayed "at a minimum, true dereliction, negligence and irresponsibility, at worse, lying, incompetence and corruption" in the run-up to the war.


President George W. Bush on Monday said America's task in Iraq was the creation of a "free, representative government", adding: "The sooner this goal is achieved, the sooner our job will be done".

With sliding support for the US operation in Iraq putting his prospects of a second term in peril, Mr Bush set out what White House officials called a "clear strategy" for success.

"We will persevere, and defeat this enemy, and hold this hard-won ground for the realm of liberty," Mr Bush said.

Speaking on the day the US and UK put forward a draft United Nations resolution that would endorse an interim Iraqi government by the end of June, the president sought to dispel the growing impression of a listless US-led effort drifting out of control.

"There are five steps in our plan to help Iraq achieve democracy and freedom," Mr Bush said. "We will hand over authority to a sovereign Iraqi government, help establish security, continue rebuilding Iraq's infrastructure, encourage more international support and move toward a national election that will bring forward new leaders empowered by the Iraqi people."

In his prime-time speech to the Army War College in Pennsylvania, Mr Bush also announced the US would seek to demolish the Abu Ghraib prison, the scene of US torture of Iraqi detainees. The US will fund the construction of a new maximum security prison and, when that is completed and with the approval of the Iraqi government, "we will demolish the Abu Ghraib prison as a fitting symbol of Iraq's new beginning," Mr Bush said, stumbling over the pronunciation of the prison's name.

Mr Bush also emphasised the effort to improve the training of 260,000 Iraqi soldiers, police and security personnel. He said James Baker, former secretary of state, had successfully negotiated with several Iraqi creditor nations to forgive or reduce Saddam Hussein-era debts.
Transcript of President Bush's speech
Click here

A CBS poll out on Monday showed 41 per cent of people surveyed approved of the job Mr Bush is doing as president, while 52 per cent disapproved - the lowest level of his presidency. A Washington Post-ABC News poll also showed Mr Bush's approval rating at the lowest level since he took office: a 47 per cent approval rating and just four out of 10 people approving of his handling of Iraq.

Mr Bush resisted the growing pressure to set a date for US troop withdrawal, instead saying that if US commanders need more soldiers, he would send them.

The numbers of people who favour troop withdrawal are also edging up - 40 per cent want the troops brought home, up 7 percentage points from last month - and the numbers supporting a stay-the-course strategy are slipping to 58 per cent from 66 per cent last month.

Just over a month before the handover of authority to what he insisted would be "full sovereignty" for the Iraqis, the president said the US aim in Iraq was "not only to defeat an enemy, it is to give strength to a friend - a free, representative government that serves its people and fights on their behalf. And the sooner this goal is achieved, the sooner our job will be done."



THE GUARDIAN
 Strong U.S. allies Australia and Japan praised Washington's latest moves on Iraq, with Canberra welcoming President Bush's pledge to stay in the country until it is democratic and Tokyo commending moves to seek a U.N. mandate for international troops there.

China urged the early establishment of a new Iraq with ``political sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity,'' but said it too supported the U.S.-British draft resolution on post-occupation Iraq introduced Monday to the U.N. Security Council.

The resolution authorizes a U.S.-led multinational force to maintain security using ``all necessary measures.'' A key issue is whether sovereignty would really be restored after the June 30 handover of power.

Later Monday in a nationally televised address, Bush outlined his vision for Iraq following the planned handover of sovereignty to its people next month.

Chinese Foreign Minister spokesman Liu Jianchao said his government will take part in U.N. consideration of the resolution ``with a positive and constructive attitude.'' He said Beijing had submitted a proposal outlining the Chinese position, including the need to improve the security of Iraq and restore peace at an early date.

Liu also said it was ``too premature'' to discuss whether China would contribute troops to the U.S.-led multinational force.

Australia's Prime Minister John Howard said he welcomed the Bush's pledge, adding that Australian troops would remain in Iraq even though opinion polls showed support for the deployment was slipping.

Australia sent 2,000 troops to take part in the invasion of Iraq and still has 850 military personnel in and around the country.

``This government has absolutely no intention of altering our position in relation to being part of the coalition in Iraq,'' Howard told parliament. ``We did not enter the coalition on the basis of opinion polls last year ... and we have absolutely no intention on the basis of opinion polls of altering our position at the present time.''

Japan welcomed the draft resolution and said it looked forward to cooperating with other countries to help rebuild Iraq. It made no mention of sending more troops.

``We hope a new resolution will be adopted to guarantee the reconstruction of Iraq by Iraqis,'' Hosoda said. ``We would like to work closely with other countries.''

Tokyo has long advocated more U.N. involvement in Iraq, which would lift public backing for Tokyo's dispatch of troops to the southern part of the country.

Japan has sent about 550 ground troops to Iraq and hundreds more air and naval forces to the region on a humanitarian mission to support the U.S.-led coalition.

The United States and Britain will need to negotiate with longtime critics of the Iraq war, such as France and Germany, on the resolution. Both Paris and Berlin are demanding a greater role for Iraq's interim government in security issues.

Japanese and South Korean media, meanwhile, said Bush's speech appeared aimed at bolstering support both at home and abroad after the prisoner abuse scandal at Abu Ghraib.

South Korea's Yonhap news agency said in an analysis piece that Bush's proposal to demolish Abu Ghraib prison could be interpreted as a ``political show'' and said it was unclear how much this would help repair impressions of U.S. soldiers.

Japan's public broadcaster said the plan to destroy the prison appeared to be part of an effort to improve America's image in the wake of the abuses of Iraqi inmates by U.S. soldiers at the facility.

Bush said the prison that was a symbol of death and torture under Saddam Hussein ``became a symbol of disgraceful conduct by a few American troops who dishonored our country and disregarded our values.''

He said the United States would pay to demolish the prison and build a new one.

South Korea already has 600 military medics and engineers in Iraq.

It decided earlier this year to send 3,600 South Korean troops to replace them as early as April, but the mission has been twice delayed and the government does not know when and where in Iraq they will be stationed. Many South Koreans oppose the plan because of growing violence there. 


THE GUARDIAN

A group led by al-Qaida figure Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is claiming responsibility for the bomb attack that killed the head of the Iraqi governing council on Monday, according to a statement on the internet.

The Arabic-language statement, signed by Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad ("Monotheism and Jihad Group"), appeared on a website known for militant Islamic messages, though its authenticity could not be immediately verified.

The group said a Saudi named Abu Salama al-Hejazi carried out the bombing but did not indicate whether it was a suicide attack.

Izzedin Salim, who had taken over the rotating presidency of the governing council this month, died along with 10 other Iraqis while waiting in his car at a US checkpoint in Baghdad.

He was the second and most senior member of the US-appointed council to be assassinated and his death came at a critical time for Washington as it tries to improve security ahead of the transfer of sovereignty to Iraqis on June 30.

Praising the attack, the internet statement said: "Another lion from the Monotheism and Jihad Group has removed one of the rotten heads of those who betray God and sell their religion to the Americans and their allies.

"This operation announces to Muslims everywhere that the mojahedin, with their people in Iraq, are continuing and determined to lift the humiliation from our nation."

Other members of the Iraqi governing council could meet the same fate as Mr Salim, the statement added.

Brig Gen Mark Kimmitt, the chief military spokesman in Iraq, initially said that Monday's car bombing had the "classic hallmarks" of Zarqawi. He later suggested others might be to blame "because of methodology in some of the techniques that were used".

A group calling itself "Arab Resistance Group - al-Rashid Brigades", said on Monday that it killed Mr Salim.

Mr Zarqawi, a Jordanian who fought in Afghanistan, is wanted by the US for allegedly organising al-Qaida activities in Iraq and a $10m (£5.6m) reward for his capture is on offer.

His group is thought to have carried out the videotaped beheading of Nicholas Berg, the American civilian found dead in Iraq this month.

Zarqawi has previously claimed responsibility for two of the worst attacks in Iraq: the truck bombing of the UN headquarters last August and the car bombing in Najaf in the same month that killed Ayatollah Mohammed Baqer al-Hakim, a leading Shia figure, along with at least 82 others.

He has also claimed a suicide boat attack on Basra oil terminal which killed at least three US sailors on April 24 and a suicide car bomb outside the US headquarters in Baghdad which killed at least five Iraqis and a US soldier on May 6. 

THE GUARDIAN

The Bush administration tried to erase the recent shameful images of postwar Iraq last night by saying it would demolish Abu Ghraib prison, and discipline its commander.

In a statement from the White House, a few hours before George Bush's speech early today, the administration said that the demolition of the prison would symbolise a new beginning for Iraq. "Under Saddam Hussein, prisons like Abu Ghraib were symbols of death and torture. That same prison became a symbol of disgraceful conduct by a few American troops who dishonoured our country and disregarded our values," it said.

The directive concludes a debate on the future of the jail that had been raging since the first images appeared three weeks ago of cowering, naked Iraqi prisoners and their taunting American army guards.

Some had argued that Abu Ghraib, stained by its history under Saddam, should have been destroyed as soon as the war had ended. Now, it appears the Bush administration has come to that same view.

The statement said the US would help finance the construction of a new maximum security prison.

Inmates would be transferred to the new building. "Then, with the approval of the Iraqi government, we will demolish the Abu Ghraib prison as a fitting symbol of Iraq's new beginning."

The army announced that the general in charge of prisons when the abuse took place had been suspended, and removed from active duty.

Brigadier General Janis Karpinski, commander of the 800th military police brigade, was severely criticised in the army's investigation of the abuse. She was accused of failing to enforce standards among the soldiers under her command, and of rarely visiting the prison.

Gen Karpinski says she was overruled by higher-ranking officers on decisions to give tactical control of the prison to military intelligence. It remains unclear whether she will face criminal charges. A spokesman said the matter was "under review".


BIOGRAPHIES

TONY BLAIR
The son of a barrister and lecturer, Tony Blair was born in Edinburgh, but spent most of his childhood in Durham. At the age of 14 he returned to Edinburgh to finish his education at Fettes College. He studied law at Oxford, and went on to become a barrister himself.

After standing unsuccessfully for the Labour Party in a by-election, Blair went on to win the seat of Sedgefield in the 1983 General Election, aged 30.

Tony Blair made a speedy rise through the ranks, being promoted first to the shadow Treasury front bench in 1984. He subsequently served as a trade and industry spokesman, before being elected to the Shadow Cabinet in 1988 where he was made Shadow Secretary of State for Energy. In 1989 he moved to the employment brief.

After the 1992 election Labour's new leader, John Smith, promoted Blair to Shadow Home Secretary. It was in this post that Blair made famous his pledge that Labour would be tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime.

John Smith died suddenly and unexpectedly in 1994, and in the subsequent leadership contest Tony Blair won a large majority of his party's support.

Blair immediately launched his campaign for the modernisation of the Labour Party, determined to complete the shift further towards the political centre which he saw as essential for victory. The debate over Clause 4 of the party's constitution was considered the crucial test of whether its members would commit to Blair's project. He removed the commitment to public ownership, and at this time coined the term New Labour.

The Labour Party won the 1997 General Election by a landslide, after 18 years in Opposition. At the age of 43 , Tony Blair became the youngest Prime Minister since Lord Liverpool in 1812.

The government began to implement a far-reaching programme of constitutional change, putting the question of devolution to referendums in Scotland and Wales.

An elected post of Mayor of London was established at the head of a new capital-wide authority, and all but 92 hereditary peers were removed from the House of Lords in the first stage of its reform. The government has also implemented an investment programme of £42 billion in its priority areas of health and education.

Tony Blair was re-elected with another landslide majority in the 2001 General Election.

He is married to the barrister Cherie Booth QC, and they have four children. Their youngest, Leo, was the first child born to a serving Prime Minister in over 150 years.


JOHN MAJOR
John Major grew up in Brixton, and was educated at his local grammar school. He left school aged 16, and worked for Standard Chartered Bank before entering politics.

His political career began as a Conservative councillor in the London borough of Lambeth, and continued when he won the constituency of Huntingdon for the Conservatives in 1979, at the election which brought his predecessor, Margaret Thatcher, to power.

He served in junior posts in the Home Office and the Whips Office and was Minister of State at the Department of Social Security before being appointed Chief Secretary to the Treasury in 1987. There he served under the then Chancellor, Nigel Lawson.

In the summer of 1989 John Major became Foreign Secretary after Geoffrey Howe was moved from the Foreign Office to become Leader of the House of Commons and Deputy Prime Minister. Major became Chancellor of the Exchequer less than 100 days later when Nigel Lawson dramatically resigned. It was during Major's tenure at the Treasury that Britain joined the European Exchange Rate Mechanism in October 1990.

Thatcher's leadership at this time was under increasing pressure, and when she was challenged, John Major supported her in the leadership election of November 1990. When she stepped down, Major entered the contest himself, and with Thatcher's support he went on to beat Michael Heseltine and Douglas Hurd. He appointed both colleagues to his new Cabinet.

Once installed in the post of Prime Minister, Major had immediately to deal with an international crisis when Kuwait was invaded by Iraq. He led Britain successfully in the short war waged by the Allies against Saddam Hussein.

Early into his term, he announced the abolition of the poll tax which had caused so much controversy during Thatcher's final years in office. He also negotiated the Treaty on European Union at Maastricht, successfully winning a compromise that was acceptable, for a time, to the opposing wings of his party. Another personal initiative was the Citizens Charter, a code designed to introduce greater accountability to public services and to drive up standards of service.

Major's style was radically different from his predecessor. His unassuming and down-to-earth manner was initially considered a breath of fresh air, and a contrast to Margaret Thatcher's forcefulness.

Under Major the Conservatives went on to win the 1992 election with a workable majority, despite opinion polls which had predicted a hung parliament. However, over the next five years by-election losses and defections would whittle the governments majority down to single figures.

Perhaps the lowest point of John Major's premiership came soon after the election: the sterling crisis of September 1992 forced the pound to leave the ERM.

In 1995 Major made a bold move to reassert his authority within the Conservative Party when he resigned as leader (but not as Prime Minister) and submitted himself for re-election. In the subsequent contest he was challenged by the Welsh Secretary, John Redwood, whom he defeated.

Towards the end of his term, the economy was steadily emerging from recession. However, the Conservatives were defeated by Labour in the 1997 General Election, and John Major resigned as leader, having been Prime Minister for seven of the Conservatives eighteen consecutive years in power.

John Major has now retired from the House of Commons and in 1999 published his political memoirs.

WINSTON CHURCHILL
Winston Churchill was a politician, a soldier, an artist, and the 20th century's most famous and celebrated Prime Minister. His father was Lord Randolph Churchill, a Nineteenth Century Tory politician. He was educated at Harrow and at Sandhurst Royal Military College, after which he saw service in India and the Sudan, and acted off-duty as a war correspondent.

Churchill left the army in 1899 to take up politics, but first travelled to South Africa as a journalist. Although taken prisoner by the Boers, he made a daring escape and returned to safety despite the price on his head. His consequent fame no doubt aided his success as the Conservative parliamentary candidate for Oldham in 1900.

Churchill was instinctively independent, willing to work with any side agreeing with his goals. Thus his stand against protectionism led him to join the Liberals in 1904. As President of the Board of Trade in Asquith's Liberal government he set up labour exchanges and unemployment insurance. As Home Secretary in 1910 he improved safety in the mines and prevented the employment of child miners, though disappointed radicals by deploying troops in Wales during a miners strike.

In 1911 he was appointed First Lord of the Admiralty, and ensured the Navy was ready for the outbreak of war in 1914. However, he was blamed for failed Dardanelles Campaign in 1915, and was demoted in the coalition government. He resigned his post and went to the Front.

In 1916 Lloyd George appointed him Minister for Munitions, in which post he developed the use of the tank in warfare. In 1918 he took responsibility for demobilisation.

He returned to the Conservative Party in the 1920s and spent 5 years as Stanley Baldwin's Chancellor, but again fell out with his party. Unpopular and ostracised for a decade, his warnings from the backbenches of Fascist imperialism went unheeded. His influence, it was said, had fallen to zero. However, Chamberlain's policy of appeasement failed, leading to his resignation and to the vindication of Churchill's position. George VI then asked Churchill to form a government in 1940 at the age of 65.

Asking the House of Commons for its confidence in his small War Cabinet, he said "I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat." His evocative and stirring rhetoric, employed in many famed speeches, is seen as representing the spirit of wartime Britain, and was essential to raising national morale. He was renowned as a great character and a great leader but was a paradoxical man. Possessed of astonishing vision, he also made disastrous mistakes. Nevertheless, he brought Britain to victory against Germany on the 8th of May, 1945.

Following the Labour landslide in the post-war 1945 election, a surprised Churchill found himself leading the Conservative Opposition. He then served four years as a peacetime Prime Minister. The second Churchill administration did not realise his hopes of ending the Cold War. In contrast to the stark choices of the second world war, he found the problems facing post-war Britain elusive and intangible.

Frustrated and in poor health, he resigned in 1955, aged 81. Following his death in 1965, Churchill's body lay in state for 3 days at Westminster Hall before his state funeral. 



CANNES

	 	 
Cannes is first and foremost discovering the selection of films and then the wait for the awards to be attributed.
But it is also a place where the future of cinema is prepared, where politics and artists, North and South, Art and Industry cross paths, brush against each other or meet.
It is our job to channel, organise these meetings so as to make them fruitful. This year, the priority is for Europe and, on an international level, the fight against piracy.
During the Day for Europe, on May 18th, 25 Ministers of Culture will discuss with Milos Forman, Stephen Frears, Jean-Claude Carrière and young artists "becoming a filmmaker".
And May 16th, the heads of major international studios meet to try to find an appropriate answer to the issue of piracy.

For the Festival must also be a special place for tailor-made meetings. The Film Village has become a large town in which you can wander until you have lost the idea of what you were looking for: we accredit 30,000 professionals 1,000 of whom are authors/directors, 4,000 distributors, 5,000 producers and 4,000 journalists.

In this capital of cinema, we have to build bridges between these different professions, continents and film generations.
This year, some 40 young filmmakers from all over the world are coming to the Festival to feast on film: in the Short Film Corner, they will be able to see their works and, thanks to the new network of producers (400 members), maybe find the partner they are looking for. The International Village will enable each of them to find their feet and cultural roots in their national pavilion, before blending once more into the common melting pot of the world of film.

These new initiatives come to strengthen the experiences of the Cinéfondation, the Résidence du Festival or the Caméra d'Or, by providing fertile soil which, although it is not enough to create a work, does go some way to encouraging its growth and discovery.
By provoking encounters, confronting differences and emphasising concert, the Festival fertilises the film industry so that all those who wish it may continue to make not only films, but construct an oeuvre.

Once the future has been glimpsed, one can return to the present in which we must, as ever, create the best possible conditions to host and celebrate such films.
The celebration of cinema is, above all, about shared pleasure: the pleasure shared in discovering a film in the presence of the cast and crew, which is of course a priceless and often overwhelming experience. But shared pleasure is also listening to the great masters when they accept to pass on their knowledge: the Film Lesson with Stephen Frears, the Music Lesson with Lalo Schifrin and, for the first time this year, an Acting Lesson. It is also the tributes paid by the Festival, each one tailor-made to fit the person it wishes to honour: Jean Luc Godard is to receive a surprise this year that you will discover once arrived.

Lastly, the celebration of film also means festive moments in which the barriers that enclose us in our professions and countries rise to make possible the most improbable and joyous meetings. Una gran fiesta to open the Festival, as only Almodovar knows how, and a beautiful party to celebrate the Award Ceremony in music on Saturday 22nd., over the whole Bay of Cannes. This year, the festive spirit should reach the same heights as the pleasure received from the films.

And now, since I've arrived at the closing ceremony, a few words about the near future. I'd just like to mention that for the 60th anniversary of the Festival in 2007, we are discussing celebrating the occasion with the Centre Pompidou, as it is their 30th birthday the same year.

And we are working with Bernard Brochand, the Mayor of Cannes, on a Festival Museum project, the first stone of which should also be laid in 2007. 

THE OBSERVER
Michael Moore's controversial polemic Farenheit 9/11 became the first documentary for nearly 50 years to win the Palme d'Or at the Cannes film festival last night.

The film, which contains scathing attacks on the business dealings of President George Bush as well as the first footage of American soldiers torturing prisoners in Iraq, beat off competition from more famous directors, including Wong Kar-Wai, Emir Kusturica and the Coen brothers to scoop top prize.

Moore, who was given a standing ovation by the Cannes crowd, told them: 'I'm completely overwhelmed by this. Merci.'

He added: 'The last time I was on an award stage in Hollywood, all hell broke loose.' Moore had been heckled when he spoke out against Bush in his acceptance speech after winning an Oscar for his previous documentary, Bowling for Columbine.

He dedicated his victory to his daughter and to 'all the children in America, Iraq and around the world who have suffered as a result of our actions.'

The film has been the subject of controversy following a decision by Disney not to distribute it during an election year.

The prizes were decided by a jury led by Quentin Tarantino and including actresses Tilda Swinton, Kathleen Turner and Emmanuelle Beart.


THE GUARDIAN
The French appeared to have delivered another blow to George Bush's war on terror by awarding the Palme d'Or to Fahrenheit 9/11, Michael Moore's documentary about the US president's foreign policy and war in Iraq.

But it was a jury with just one French member and four Americans which gave the top prize at the Cannes film festival to a documentary for the first time since 1956.

Last year the Palme d'Or went to Elephant, an American film dismissed as irresponsible by critics in the US for its portrayal of the Columbine high school massacre: a topic also covered by Moore in the past. This year, it was won by a film which Disney refused to distribute in the US.

Accepting the award after a standing ovation, Moore said he hoped Fahrenheit 9/11 would now be shown across the US. Disney blocked the distribution of the film, made by its subsidiary Miramax, and Miramax is now trying to find someone alse to put the film out before the presidential election in November. "Perhaps this film will have a tremendous impact. I hope it will," Moore said, adding that he hoped Mr Bush would not choke on a pretzel when he heard the news.

"He has the funniest lines in the film. I am eternally grateful to him," he said of the American president.

"I want to thank Mr Bush, Mr Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz and Donald Rumsfeld. I thought the love scene between Cheney and Rumsfeld brought a tear to my eye."

Moore denied he set out to make a political film and said Quentin Tarantino, the jury's president, told him the political message of Fahrenheit 9/11 did not influence its decision.

The three French films in the competition all won awards while 14-year-old Yagira Yuuya was named best actor for playing the eldest of four siblings growing up without their mother in the Japanese film Nobody Knows.

Maggie Cheung's portrayal of a drug addict trying to rebuild her life in Clean won her the best actress award.

The grand prize, the second place award, went to the South Korean filmmaker Park Chan-wook for his thriller, Old Boy.

French films won the directing and screenwriting prizes: Tony Gatlif won the director's prize for Exiles, while Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri won the screenplay award for Look at Me, a study of an overweight woman's self-image.

Moore won an Oscar two years ago for Bowling for Columbine, his documentary attacking gun use in America.


REUTERS

 By Paul Majendie

CANNES, France (Reuters) - Critics gave a rapturous reception to "Shrek 2" at the Cannes film festival Saturday, guffawing over the tale of a green ogre who finds true love.

"Thank you for that," DreamWorks co-founder Jeffrey Katzenberg said after the critics, often notoriously hard to please at Cannes, welcomed the follow-up to the worldwide hit for voiceover stars Eddie Murphy and Cameron Diaz.

With global appetite raging for animation movies, Katzenberg said work had already begun on Shrek 3 and Shrek 4.

And he was quick to boast that this was the first time in the 57-year history of Cannes that a movie and its sequel had both been in competition for the coveted Palme d'Or.

DreamWorks flew in the voiceover cast for the Cannes screening, where many of the biggest laughs and the most applause went to Spanish heart-throb Antonio Banderas for his riotous portrayal of Puss-in-Boots.

He was quite happy to take a dig at himself on screen for the sake of laughs coming thick and fast.

"We are practically spoofing everything. I am spoofing myself doing Zorro. But it's not cheap parody. It is very well done," he told reporters.

Eddie Murphy, who returns as the fast-talking donkey, admitted it was unnerving to make an ass of himself on screen -- especially as he could recognize his own gestures.

"When you are doing the voiceover sessions, they have a video camera recording what you are doing and the animators will take a gesture or a facial expression," he said.

"Every so often that donkey makes a face like I do. It is scary," he told reporters.

Mike Myers, who returns as the ogre with a heart, was asked why so many Canadians went to Hollywood.

 "We export three things -- comedians, hockey players and various strains of wheat," he said.

"We are on the borders looking in and making comments. We look a lot like them but we are the enemy within -- the body snatchers," he said with a big grin.

British star Rupert Everett, who plays a riotously over-the-top Prince Charming in Shrek 2, was charm itself, answering his questions in French to the delight of local reporters.

The film is packed with jokey pop and Hollywood references. One of the biggest cheers came when the camera panned up from a bed shared by Shrek and his princess, played by Cameron Diaz.

On the wall was a poster of "Sir Justin."

But Diaz quickly knocked down with a curt answer a reporter who asked if her boyfriend, pop star Justin Timberlake, had liked the film.

"That is a question for him and he is not here and I can't really answer that for him," she said, a fixed grin firmly across her face.



REUTERS
 By Paul Majendie

CANNES, France (Reuters) - Critics rank Michael Moore as one of the favourites to land the top prize at the Cannes film Festival after his blistering anti-Bush documentary won a standing ovation.

"Fahrenheit 911" is now firmly in line to be the first documentary to land the Palme d'Or since Jacques Cousteau and Louis Malle's marine epic "The World of Silence" in 1956.

The documentary, launched in a storm of publicity after a row over its distribution in a U.S. election year, is a relentless tirade against Bush's handling of the Iraq conflict and the "war on terror."

Moore would dearly love to see Bush defeated in November's election and critics saw the emotive documentary as an effective rallying cry for his opponents.

Screen International, which takes the festival temperature every day, put Moore up with French director Agnes Jaoui's "Look at me" on Tuesday as one of the leading contenders.

The magazine asks critics from as far apart as Israel, Estonia and Canada to pick their favourites so far at the festival.

The influential Variety trade magazine called the film "a blatant cinematic 2004 campaign pamphlet" and said Moore could convince disillusioned and disenfranchised Americans to vote.

"He might prove somewhat successful due to the emotionalism of his pitch," it said.

The Hollywood Reporter said: "What Moore seems to be pioneering here is a reality film as an election year device."

Moore, a masterful self-publicist in stirring up controversy over his documentaries, was welcomed by fans like a rock star when he took to the red carpet at the Palais des Festivals on Monday night.

Cult film American film director Quentin Tarantino is heading the Cannes judges who pick the winner on Saturday of one of the movie world's most treasured prizes after the Hollywood Oscars.

Moore's latest documentary first hit the headlines when the Walt Disney Co barred its Miramax film unit from releasing such a politically polarising work so close to an election.

But Moore confidently predicted to reporters "This film will be seen in the United States before the election -- have no fear of that."

Judging by the 20-minute standing ovation for the film at its world premiere on Monday, Moore could be onto another winner.

Two years ago, his anti-gun lobby documentary "Bowling for Columbine" was rapturously received by the critics, went on to gross $120 million (68 million pounds) and landed Moore an Oscar.


REUTERS
 By Paul Majendie

CANNES (Reuters) - The world's biggest cinema showcase is braced for an ambush by part-time French actors and stagehands threatening to spoil Cannes's annual cocktail of sun, celebrity and celluloid.

Fearing protests by entertainment workers demanding state unemployment handouts, France laid on 1,000 police to protect the film festival which was due to open on Wednesday night with customary red-carpet razzmatazz.

"The Cannes festival is a jewel of French culture which must be protected and it cannot be hampered or destroyed by protests of any kind," said Cannes Mayor Bernard Brochant.

Always mired in controversy, this year's Cannes Film Festival is no exception with the premiere of American filmmaker Michael Moore's movie "Fahrenheit 9/11," a tirade against U.S. President George W. Bush.

Since the Madrid train bombings two months ago, security concerns have risen sharply across Europe. But for Cannes organisers, the biggest headache could be their own industry.

Part-time actors and technicians -- who stopped several French festivals last year in a row over their benefits when out of work -- blocked for several hours the trucks carrying the Cannes movies from Paris to the Riviera.

Organisers of the festival, halted in May 1968 at the height of student-worker protests, were trying to work with trade unions by offering them a platform to air their views.

MORE MOORE

Moore, lauded two years ago for his anti-gun lobby documentary "Bowling for Columbine," will compete with makers of 17 other films from around the globe for the coveted Palme d'Or award.

The Walt Disney Co has barred its Miramax film unit from releasing Moore's anti-Bush movie, saying it did not want to put out a politically polarising film in a U.S. election year.

"The Life and Death of Peter Sellers," a biography of the British comedian starring Geoffrey Rush and Charlize Theron, has angered his family.

Sellers's third wife, Britt Ekland, called the casting of Theron "nonsense" and Sellers's son has objected also.

Cult film director Quentin Tarantino heads the judges for this year's festival where a third of the films come from Asia.

It also offers a hefty dose of Hollywood mainstream with films like the animation hit follow-up "Shrek 2."

Berlin, Venice and Sundance are small but perfectly formed festivals where art is everything -- Cannes, by contrast, is brash and glitzy. Movie moguls do mega deals and Hollywood sends in its big guns.

For actor Brad Pitt, Cannes 2004 offers the chance to promote the $200 million sword-and-sandals epic "Troy".

For Tom Hanks, it's his maiden voyage to Cannes where he will be publicising the Coen brothers' remake of the classic British comedy "The Ladykillers".

"There's not a lot of firsts you can have if you've been in the business as long as I have but I'm sure the first time at Cannes will be an extraordinary thing," he said.

Cannes pits intellectual cinema critics against showbusiness writers who mock each other.

But, as London's Times wrote: "Cannes remains just what history has made it: a silly, splendid, valuable microcosm of the entire film industry."

WASHINGTON POST
  By Joelle Diderich

PARIS (Reuters) - The world's most glamorous film showcase is bracing for possible disruptions by out-of-work French actors and stagehands protesting a change to their unemployment benefits.
	

Culture Minister Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres Wednesday announced the creation of a temporary fund to help part-time entertainment industry workers in a bid to quell their anger ahead of the Cannes festival, which runs from May 12 to 23.

However the Communist-led CGT union, which represents the majority of workers in the sector, rejected the 20-million-euro ($24.3 million) fund as inadequate and pledged to step up its year-long protests.

"We can already say at this stage that the 2004 Cannes festival will be memorable," it said in a statement.

The Riviera resort, a magnet for Hollywood movers and shakers, is scheduled to play host this year to stars including Brad Pitt and Charlize Theron. Veronique Cayla, general director of the festival, said organizers were working with unions to prevent any recurrence of the type of protests which forced the cancellation of a spate of French music and theater festivals last summer.

"We are working on ways of giving them a platform," she told the daily Liberation. Security at the Palais des Festivals, the main venue for film screenings, will be particularly tight in the wake of the Madrid train bombings in March.

"We do not expect the Palais des Festivals to be taken by storm. But we can't control everything. Provocateurs and hard-liners can join this just cause and spoil the party which the festival should rightly be," Cayla said.

In a bid to defuse tension, Donnedieu de Vabres will travel to Cannes to keep up talks with union officials on the sidelines of official events.

"I am calling for everybody to show respect for the artists, for their output, for the public and simply for the pride and international reputation of our country," the minister told parliament during question time.

The Cannes film festival has weathered its share of skirmishes in recent years.

In 2002, U.S. delegates threatened to boycott the festival on charges that France was anti-Semitic and last year, relations with the United States were at a low ebb over France's opposition to the war in Iraq. The show went on regardless.

(Additional reporting by Elizabeth Pineau) 


CBS News

(REUTERS) The French Riviera resort of Cannes rumbled into gear Monday for its world-famous annual film festival, where a cast of thousands will gather over the next two weeks to celebrate the magic of the silver screen.

Actors, directors, distributors, journalists and assorted hangers-on began to flood into the Mediterranean city for a seemingly endless cycle of screenings, news conferences and parties that has made this the high point of the movie calendar.

"You can't miss the Cannes festival. All the players on the planet meet there, hook up, make film projects," festival chief Gilles Jacob said in a recent magazine interview.

The festival, which runs from May 15 to 26, is primarily a showcase for the kind of art films that otherwise risk being ignored at the box office. But the intellectual fare is tempered with old-fashioned Hollywood glamour.

Cannes veterans like British directors Mike Leigh and Ken Loach, Portugal's Manoel de Oliveira and Israel's Amos Gitai are among those bidding for the coveted Palme D'Or award.

Celebrities expected to walk up the red carpet include Leonardo DiCaprio, Cameron Diaz, Woody Allen, Jack Nicholson and Ralph Fiennes. They promise to restore the celebrity count after a threatened actors' strike kept many stars away last year.

For young filmmakers, the festival offers the chance to become an overnight star.

Witness Bosnian director Danis Tanovic, a virtual unknown, who premiered his film "No Man's Land" in Cannes last year and went on to win the Oscar for best foreign language movie.

"Since May 12, 2001, the date my film was shown at Cannes, my life has changed," Tanovic has said.

For others, the festival can prove a risky gamble. Earn bad reviews from the hundreds of film critics gathered here, and you can be virtually sure the film will flop at the box office.

Tim Robbins said last year he never again wanted to present a movie he has directed at the hectic festival. " don't get why you'd want to subject your baby to this place," the American actor-director told Reuters.

Many Hollywood studios, wary of the festival's reputation for rewarding obscure foreign films, opt to screen their offerings out of the competition.

Among those hugging the sidelines this year are Barbet Schroeder's "Murder by Numbers," starring Sandra Bullock, and the animated "Spirit" by Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks studio.

Special treats will include a 20-minute snippet from U.S. director Martin Scorsese's eagerly-awaited "Gangs of New York," starring DiCaprio and Diaz, scheduled for release in December.

George Lucas will attend a screening of "Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones" on May 16, the same day the blockbuster production hits U.S. multiplexes.

If the jury is anything to go by, however, the big winner of the festival could be an altogether offbeat production.

Headed by director David Lynch, famous for his surreal and disturbing movies, the jury features five other directors in addition to actresses Sharon Stone and Michelle Yeoh.

That should give a running start to competitors like David Cronenberg, whose "Spider" stars Fiennes as a schizophrenic, or the eccentric Aki Kaurismaki, offering a film about an amnesiac, aptly entitled "The Man Without a Past."

Written By Joelle Diderich  MMII Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.


CBS News


American filmmaker Michael Moore's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a scathing indictment of White House actions after the Sept. 11 attacks, won the top prize Saturday at the Cannes Film Festival.

"Fahrenheit 9/11" was the first documentary to win Cannes' prestigious Palme d'Or since Jacques Cousteau's "The Silent World" in 1956.

"What have you done? I'm completely overwhelmed by this. Merci," Moore said after getting a standing ovation from the Cannes crowd.

The grand prize, the festival's second-place honor, went to South Korean filmmaker Park Chan-wook's "Old Boy," a blood-soaked thriller about a man out for revenge after years of inexplicable imprisonment.

Moore was momentarily flabbergasted when he took the stage to accept the award, a big difference from his fiery speech against President Bush after winning the best-documentary Academy Award for 2002's "Bowling for Columbine."

"You have to understand, the last time I was on an awards stage, in Hollywood, all hell broke loose," Moore said.

The best-actress award went to Maggie Cheung for her role in "Clean" as a junkie trying to straighten out her life and regain custody of her young son after her rock-star boyfriend dies of a drug overdose.

Fourteen-year-old Yagira Yuuya was named best actor for the Japanese film "Nobody Knows," in which he plays the eldest of four sibling raised in isolation, who must take charge of the family when their mother leaves.

The directing and writing prizes went to French filmmakers. Tony Gatlif won the directing honor for "Exiles," his road-trip about a couple on a sensual journey from France to Algeria.

Agnes Jaoui and her romantic partner, Jean-Pierre Bacri, won the screenplay award for "Look at Me," their study in self-image centering on an overweight young woman who feels neglected by loved ones. Jaoui and Bacri also co-star.

"Fahrenheit 9/11" won the top award from sharply divided Cannes moviegoers, who found a solid crop of good movies among the 19 entries in the festival's main competition but no great ones that rose to front-runner status.

While "Fahrenheit 9/11" was well-received by Cannes audiences, many critics felt it was inferior to Moore's Academy Award-winning documentary "Bowling for Columbine," which earned him a special prize at Cannes in 2002.

Some critics speculated that if "Fahrenheit 9/11" won the top prize, it would be more for the film's politics than its cinematic value.

With Moore's customary blend of humor and horror, "Fahrenheit 9/11" accuses the Bush camp of stealing the 2000 election, overlooking terrorism warnings before Sept. 11 and fanning fears of more attacks to secure Americans' support for the Iraq war.

Moore appears on-screen far less in "Fahrenheit 9/11" than in "Bowling for Columbine" or his other documentaries. The film relies largely on interviews, footage of U.S. soldiers and war victims in Iraq, and archival footage of Bush.

Just back in Cannes after his daughter's college graduation in the United States, Moore dedicated the award to "my daughter and to all the children in America and Iraq and throughout the world who suffered through our actions."

"Fahrenheit 9/11" made waves in the weeks leading up to Cannes after the Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film in the United States because of its political content. Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein are negotiating to buy back the film and find another distributor, with hopes of landing it in theaters by Fourth of July weekend.

Quentin Tarantino headed the nine-member jury that handed out prizes in Cannes' main competition. The other jurors included actresses Kathleen Turner, Tilda Swinton and Emmanuelle Beart.

Thai director Apichatpong Weerasethakul's "Tropical Malady" - widely regarded by Cannes audiences as a snoozer for its elongated scenes of a man wandering a jungle alone, with no dialogue - won the festival's third-place jury prize.

Another jury prize went to Irma P. Hall for her role as an elderly Southern woman who foils a casino robbery in the Coen brothers' crime comedy "The Ladykillers," starring Tom Hanks as the heist's ringleader.

Keren Yedaya's "Or," about a Tel Aviv prostitute in failing health and her teenage daughter, won the Golden Camera award for best film by a first-time director. The U.S.-born Yedaya, who grew up in Israel, gives lectures about the problems of prostitution for government officials and mental-health professionals.

Earlier Saturday, Senegalese filmmaker Ousmane Sembene's "Moolaade," an examination of the ritual of female circumcision that earned rave reviews, won the top prize in a secondary Cannes competition called "Un Certain Regard."

The 12-day festival's closing film - "De-Lovely," Kevin Kline's musical biography of Cole Porter - screened immediately after the awards. Kline and co-star Ashley Judd then hosted a beach concert featuring Sheryl Crow, Alanis Morissette, Natalie Cole and other singers from "De-Lovely" performing Porter tunes.

The festival was to wrap up Sunday with encore screenings of award winners and other key movies that played the festival, including a combined, four-hour version of Tarantino's two "Kill Bill" installments.

©MMIV, The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.



NORMANDY



International Herald Tribune, Tue, June, 08.
Papers on the 60th anniversary of D-day.



	 In Schröder's attendance, Germany's rehabilitation
  	
Katrin Bennhold, International Herald Tribune
	
June 07, 2004
CAEN, France It is perhaps the final act of rehabilitation. For the first time Germany joined the club of Allied nations to celebrate Europe's liberation from the grip of fascism more than half a century ago.
.
The unprecedented attendance of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder at the 60th anniversary of D-Day on the beaches of Normandy on Sunday has drawn the most symbolic line yet between the Germany that attacked its neighbors in World War II and today's Germany, whose freedom and democracy were also born on June 6, 1944. "It's not the Germany of those dark ages that I represent here today," Schröder said at the Franco-German ceremony at the Caen Peace Memorial that brought the ceremonies on Sunday to a close. "My country has returned to the fold of civilized nations. It traveled a long road to become a successful and stable democracy." At the same time the chancellor struck a humble tone, stressing that rehabilitation must never mean forgetting. "We Germans know we unleashed this heinous war," the chancellor told veterans and other visitors at the Caen Peace Memorial. "We recognize the responsibility our history has laid upon us."
.
President Jacques Chirac hailed the German presence as the healing of a wound and a celebration of European integration."The European idea, the projects that it incarnates, were actually born here, with the end of the Third Reich," Chirac said at the joint address with Schröder. "What we owe our dead is to give a sense to their sacrifice, to resolutely commit to the only path that will ensure peace in Europe: that of reconciliation between our two countries."According to an IFOP opinion poll, 88 percent of French people say that it was a good to invite Schröder; 11 percent said they were unhappy with his presence. Reaction among veterans ranged from wholehearted acceptance to deep unease.
.
Rémy Dreyfus was 25 years old when he landed as a parachutist behind German lines. Of Jewish origin, he fled occupied France to train with Britain's Special Air Service. Dreyfus is a staunch European and believer in Franco-German reconciliation, but he says he will never be at ease with German veterans at the ceremonies. "I draw the line at 75," he said. "I have no problem with Germans below 75, but I can't deny that I look at those above the age of 75 in a different way."
.
Schröder, who was born in 1944 just weeks before the invasion, is the first chancellor not to remember the war. His predecessor, Helmut Kohl, a teenager during the last years of the war, was not invited to the 50th anniversary in 1994, disappointing many German veterans.
.
Alexander Uhlig, the only survivor of a parachute battalion, regrets that the Germans weren't invited earlier. "I think it's good that the Germans are here this time," he said.
.
Schröder tread carefully, choosing the British cemetery in Ranville, with some 332 German graves, rather than the large German cemetery of La Cambe, where 21,500 German soldiers are buried, including SS troops.
.
He laid a wreath on the grave of an unknown German soldier. International Herald Tribune



   	 For the Germans, the war's ambiguities persist
  	
John Vinocur/IHT 
	
Monday, June 7, 2004
Politicus
 
PARIS In joining with leaders of World War II's victorious Allies in their commemoration of D-Day, Chancellor Gerhard Schröder has referred to Germany's presence on the Normandy invasion beaches as marking "the final end" to the postwar period and the completion of "Germany's long journey to the West."
.
Alongside the chancellor's argument that the Allies liberated the Germans from Nazi tyranny, what this comes down to is a kind of political assurance that Germany has forever abandoned its contemptuous notion of a mercantile, soulless West and its equally contemptuous but territorially hungry view of the lands beyond its eastern borders.
.
Coming in the context of Schröder's current drive to win Germany a seat on the United Nations Security Council, a statement sounding like a guarantee of its comfortable anchorage in the acquisitive, nonromantic world of capitalism finds few doubters.
.
But concerning Eastern Europe, Schröder's willful reading of his invitation to the D-Day anniversary as "the final end" to the postwar period is a different matter. It does not correspond entirely to current events and, for the time being, may be a bit of an imposition on history.
.
Germany's relationship in 2004 with the country's two major neighbors to the east - or, perhaps most precisely, that of a significant number of Germans - involves harsh, palpable difficulties.
.
With backing from mainstream conservative and Social Democrat personalities, politically powerful groups of expellees from former German territories in the Czech Republic and Poland are mounting newly aggressive campaigns to regain their old properties and memorialize themselves as World War II victims.
.
A week ago, the Christian Democratic Union's candidate for chancellor in 2002, Edmund Stoiber, spoke out in support of Bavarian conservatives' refusal in the European Parliament to approve Czech membership in the European Union. The reason was because the Prague government has turned its back on reviewing decrees that allowed Czechs to take over properties seized from Sudetenland Germans in 1945.
.
At the same meeting, Peter Glotz, a former general secretary of the Social Democratic Party, said that German tact over the issue of wartime expulsions must mean that when Germans talk about "our wounds," it is without the constraints of "politically correct murmuring." This is the sense of a Center Against Expulsion that Germans from the former Sudetenland and Prussian territories want built in Berlin.
.
In Poland, where 57 percent of the population views Germany negatively, the juxtaposition of the country's new presence in the European Union and Schröder's now officialized German view of a World War II ending with the Germans' liberation rather than their defeat is more than just an awkward coincidence. For Czechs as well, this adjusted reading of history accompanies an attempt to revive the issue of ownership of seized property based on a new legal front that the expellees opened with the entry of the two former Nazi-occupied countries into the EU on May 1.
.
While Schröder was saying that D-Day signaled "the starting point for today's new Europe" and maintained that the EU was "the best guarantor of peace" in Europe, Stoiber was arguing that this wider EU, now taking in the countries of the former Soviet orbit, must be on the side of the German claimants. "Will the EU remain silent over this?" he asked. "Europe must ask itself such questions now - and we're going to ask them."
.
Assuming that it was not Schröder's intent to reopen the war's resolved territorial issues, he nevertheless faced the issue of calming enraged Poles and Czechs, while appearing not to disavow millions of Germans defining themselves as victims. The chancellor, after all, has now asserted that Germans were being liberated in 1944 and 1945, just when the expellees were leaving areas that have become parts of Poland and the Czech Republic. Die Zeit, the Hamburg-based weekly that reported the poll results on Polish attitudes, published a long article recently saying that a group of expellees, like those who invited Stoiber and Glotz to their convention in Nuremburg, were calling "the postwar order into question and awakening the Poles' old fears and resentments." German-Polish relations, the newspaper said, "are enormously damaged."
.
Unquestionably, through its recognition of the Oder-Neisse line, Germany has given up any claim on dealing with lost territory or its border with Poland. But Die Zeit reported that the German Finance Ministry recently wrote to a potential claimant that the Federal Republic "never renounced individual claims by Germans," and pointed him in the direction of the courts.
.
In response, a Polish commission has set $31.5 billion (reckoned as much too low by some Poles) as the amount Poland should seek from Germany for damage during World War II if new German claims go ahead.
.
Attempting to reassure the Poles, the German government has spoken of proposed legal action as private initiative having nothing to do with German policy. But German jurists are said to consider that since the Germans and Poles have never reached a specific arrangement on the properties, the claims are not without potential validity. Die Zeit talked to a Polish historian, Krysztof Ruchniewicz, about the wider meaning and context of the moves by the expellees, who he said were regarded by Poles not as victims of Hitler but as supporters of the Nazis from regions that backed Hitler from his earliest days.
.
Ruchniewicz was not surprised by the developments, the article said. The climate for it was prepared during recent years in which the Germans looked at themselves increasingly as victims.
.
"This started," Die Zeit wrote, "with Gunter Grass's short novel 'Im Krebsgang' in 2002, which involved the deaths of thousands of Germans on board the torpedoed ship Wilhelm Gustloff, then went on to books and TV documentaries on the Allied bombing of German cities and then to the Federation of Expellees' call for the construction of a Center Against Expulsion. In Warsaw's mind, this center was going to be visible from Berlin's Holocaust Monument - for Poles, an intolerable relativization of German guilt."
.
Within the Berlin leadership, Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, whose German family left Hungary with the collapse of the Nazi occupation there, has been the most vocal in acknowledging the ambiguities of the rise of an increasingly aggressive body of self-declared German victims of World War II.
.
Like most of the left, Fischer maintains that "the fall of Nazism was a liberation - for Germany too, precisely." Yet when the issue of a Center Against Expulsion first came up two years ago, Fischer opposed its becoming a national project.
.
If it were built on German soil, he said then, "You've got the reasonable suspicion that a rewriting of history is resulting from it, with a victim-oppressor reversal in roles."
.
Fischer linked the destruction of Jewish culture with what he called the self-destruction of German culture, old German cities and German minorities in World War II. Debate about expelled Germans "as victims" was totally lacking, he said, in the sense that in the public mind in Germany it generally began only with the German retreat and the advance of the Red Army.
.
"If you talk about expulsions," he said, "you can't leave out what went before. Otherwise you get into a fully false debate that says 'the Germans were also victims.' That's relativizing historical guilt and it comes with a confrontational, distorted perception of history which reflects neither the truth nor our European interests. The real debate is, What did we do to ourselves?"
.
In the case of the Center Against Expulsion, a bit of the confrontational nature of the proposal has been deflected by suggestions that it could be internationally funded, located outside Germany to calm the anger of Germany's neighbors and focused on the fate of displaced populations throughout the world.
.
But that has none of the heat and grip of scores of thousands of properties and potential German claims lying beyond the final lines drawn by a war that effectively settled the place of Germany in eastern Europe almost 60 years ago.
.
Now, with Schröder saying that D-Day began the process of firmly tying Germany to the West and that his invitation to Normandy marked the end of the postwar period, the old issues of Polish and Czech anxieties about Germans' intentions are back in a new form.
.
International Herald Tribune




War turned invasion's overall commander into a pacifist
  	
John S.D. Eisenhower IHT
	
Sunday, June 6, 2004
The 60th anniversary of the Allied landings in Normandy, on the day known in common parlance as D-Day, was once again an occasion to pause and contemplate its significance. Like all Americans, I am proud of the achievements of my fellow soldiers but aware of the ordeal they underwent. To this day, I view those men with respect bordering on awe.
.
To me, as the son of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the general who commanded that invasion, it carries an added dimension. I find it difficult to believe, even after all these years, that my own father was such a historic figure. Sixty years of repetitive observances of D-Day have not dimmed my wonder.
.
The observance takes on additional meanings this year. For one thing, it is the last decade in which most of us veterans of that war will still be around. In addition, however, the observances are taking place in times of extreme danger for our country. That circumstance invites many people to compare today's scene with that of 60 years ago. I am asked time and again, "What would your father think if he were alive today?"
.
At this point, I must emphasize that I cannot with any confidence give an opinion regarding what my father would make of today's scene. He was unpredictable when examining any new problem because he always viewed it in its entirety, totally free of thumb rules and largely independent of tradition. More obviously, the world has changed drastically during the 43 years since my father left the presidency in 1961.
.
When the British and American landing craft plowed through heavy seas to assault the beaches of Normandy that dreary June morning, General Eisenhower - I'll call him "Ike" for convenience - had no time or inclination to contemplate the social, political and economic consequences of the hoped-for military success in Europe. His mind was full of other things: Were the landings successful? How far had the troops been able to push inland? How heavy were the losses? What is the condition of the artificial harbors and the beaches? It was an experience of the moment.
.
Yet those worries quickly passed. When I joined my father for a brief visit in London a week after D-Day, the experience of D-Day had virtually disappeared from his mind. The day's dramatic events, with their threat of disaster for the Allied cause but eventual triumph, were gone. D-Day was one event in a sequence of events that culminated in the destruction of the Nazi regime and the German war machine.
.
The experience of that 11-month campaign, plus Ike's later service as the first military commander of NATO six years later, produced profound effects on him, changing some of his convictions and confirming others. I would like to list some of them, not in the abstract but by the evidence of his later actions.
.
The most fundamental conviction that the period of Ike's command in Europe and the Mediterranean imprinted on his mind was the cruelty, wastefulness and stupidity of war. He saw at firsthand how war destroyed cities, killed innocent people (in which I include most of the participating soldiers), wiped out national economies and tore up the structure of civilizations. Its wastefulness cut him to the bone, and its specter never left him. As a result, as president he kept the military budget as small as was consistent with the safety of the nation. He expressed his convictions eloquently in April 1953, about three months after his inauguration as the 34th president of the United States:
.
"Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed.
.
"The cost of one modern heavy bomber is this: a modern brick school in more than 30 cities.
.
"It is two electric power plants, each serving a town of 60,000 population.
.
"It is two fine, fully equipped hospitals\u2026.
.
"We pay for a single fighter plane with a half million bushels of wheat. We pay for a single destroyer with new homes that could have housed 8,000 people."
.
Not surprisingly, the war that included D-Day had made a pacifist of the man who bore the responsibility, its supreme commander.
.
As I consider the effect that D-Day and the war in Europe had on my father, I am struck by the degree to which it convinced him of the value of allies. Ike, in leading an army and air force of five million soldiers and airmen of all nationalities, realized full well that the United States, while providing the bulk of the materiel and manpower, could never go it alone. Though Hitler's Wehrmacht was weakened after five years of war, the vaunted and professional German Army still had a lot of fight left in it when the Anglo-American armada crossed the English Channel in 1944. Later in the campaign, the hedgerows, dense forests and formidable rivers such as the Roer and the Rhine, worked all to Hitler's advantage. The ability to switch German forces back and forth between the Russians in the east and the Western Allies in France, Belgium and Luxembourg gave Hitler's generals great power. They were still a formidable force to defeat.
.
To Ike, therefore, his British (and later French) allies were no luxury; they were absolutely necessary. But they were no toadies. Dealing with the strong-minded leaders of Britain and France - Winston Churchill and Charles de Gaulle respectively - was difficult. At times it was frustrating. But always it was rewarding. Ike viewed allies as invaluable assets, not only for their material contributions, but for their wisdom as well. Ike did not consider that giving in to their demands when necessary was any sign of weakness on his own part. Doing so was simply part of a great cooperative effort.
.
With his detestation of war as a means of settling international disputes, Ike applauded the formation of the United Nations in 1945, even though he had no hand in its formation. Leaving the army in 1948 for private life, he was recalled to active duty in early 1951 to organize the military forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization when the military threat from the east seemed to become imminent. In his stay in Paris, Ike developed a strong belief in NATO that he never lost.
.
It so happens that I was witness to one example of Ike's concern for the opinions and attitudes of his allies during his presidency. In September 1959, Premier Nikita Khrushchev of the Soviet Union served up an ultimatum to the Western allies to get out of West Berlin or else. Ike chose to negotiate while rejecting the ultimatum. In the course of the ensuing talks, a mix-up in signals in the State Department resulted in an unintended invitation for Khrushchev to visit the United States alone, not in the company of all the nations involved in the current crisis.
.
That unilateral invitation may or may not have turned out to be a good thing, but the incident illustrated Ike's concern that his allies - now Britain, France and the newly emerging West Germany - be assured that he had no intention of representing their interests in his forthcoming conferences with Khrushchev. So Ike took some of his personal staff and boarded a new Boeing 707 on its maiden voyage as Air Force One to visit Konrad Adenauer in Bonn, Harold Macmillan in Britain and de Gaulle in Paris. With all of them he conducted frank talks, and Ike's allies were reassured. He would have it no other way.
.
Ike totally disapproved of "preventive war," and that conviction was put to the test early in his presidency. Some time in the early 1950s the Soviet development of the hydrogen bomb and the means to deliver it caused many Americans, some of Ike's advisers among them, to advocate launching a preemptive strike against the Soviet Union while the United States still enjoyed a preponderance of atomic power and the means of delivering atomic weapons. It would be preferable, these people argued, to remove the Soviet weapons of mass destruction. No legal or moral justification was required. A few million Americans would be killed, of course, but a far fewer number than if we waited and allowed the "Evil Empire" (not Ike's term) to strike first.
.
Ike would have none of it. Throughout his presidency he combined a policy of maintaining a military deterrent to war while at the same time extending the hand of friendship. The uneasy peace between the United States and the Soviet Union - the cold war - continued for nearly 50 years. It was expensive and it was dangerous, but civilization survived.
.
A less apocalyptic event demonstrated to the world that Ike's rejection of force as an instrument of national policy applied to everyone - to America, to America's friends, as well as to America's potential enemies. In the later months of 1956, in the midst of a presidential election, Britain, France and Israel, two of them NATO allies, launched an attack against Egypt's Gamal Abdul Nasser after his seizure of the Suez Canal. The Egyptian action, admittedly, had been an international headache, but Ike refused to condone the use of force, even by his friends. He sponsored a vote of censure in the United Nations, and the governments of those three countries, under the pressure of world opinion, withdrew their forces.
.
This action on Ike's part did not imply rancor against the offenders. It was simply an expression of principle. This he demonstrated in the immediate aftermath of the episode. In the course of the brief fighting, Nasser had sunk ships enough to close down the Suez Canal. Ike and his experts immediately sat down to plan ways to ensure at least a minimum supply of heating oil to bring Western Europe through the winter of 1956-57.
.
While the recitation of these events seems remote from the D-Day we are commemorating, I offer them as offshoots of Dwight Eisenhower's experiences in the campaigns of 1944-45. Many of Ike's policies were different from those we see being followed today. But he was the first to admit that situations change, and the policies followed in one generation might be used as guides to future action but never rules. How he would view today's world scene, I repeat that I do not know.
.
But I wonder.
.
International Herald Tribune



.


On cliff over Omaha Beach, a man who fought remembers
  	
John Vinocur NYT
	
Friday, June 4, 2004
Pointe du Hoc is a knife, stood on its edge, pointed into the sea. It looks lethal, a palisade of boulder and mean rocks where Normandy's green softness has reclaimed nothing. Battlefields: You could walk them from Gettysburg to Waterloo and go back to your car thinking of lunch. But not at Pointe du Hoc. The brightest morning roughens there, the wind working like a rasp, still scoring cruel edges on the sheer cliffs. On D-Day, the U.S. Army's Second Ranger Battalion had to climb the knife's blade through bullets and shells. In 1984, looking down to the sea from the viewpoint of the German machine-gun emplacements, imagination becomes superfluous. The emotions are all immediate and distinct: My God, they made it to the top; this is still a cruel place; it holds the mark of a killing ground.
.
Pointe du Hoc is special. For the most part, the pastoral blanket of Normandy covers over any sense of the fury, the dying and the scale involved in the thrust of 180,000 Allied troops into Europe on the 6th of June, 1944. The pastures are too lush, the land too rich with apple orchards and rose arbors. In Normandy, near the beaches, the war burned fast. There is no complaint, of course - the Allies rushed through the nearby countryside and were soon gone; 11 months after D-Day, Hitler's Europe fell. Occasionally, a speech (hundreds are scheduled this year) will resemble the regrown landscape and turn the invasion to whole glory, leaving the dead as a detail. Reality was something else. In the first 25 hours, the U.S. 1st Army had 6,603 casualties; two months later, the Americans had to use bulldozers to clear a passage through the 40,000 German corpses at Chambois to the south.
.
Normandy, its landscape healed, soothes mostly, and holds tightly to its emotions. They are there, although not much at Utah or Omaha Beaches, or in the invasion museums, where models of the engineering feats have the look of Erector sets, and the old uniforms seem like rock band gear from costume shops. The sense of war, the extraordinary bravery of the Allied armies, the numbers, the losses, the real suffering that disappears in time and commemorative oratory, are not marked out in any red guidebook of the emotions, but they are present if you look.
.
I went to the D-Day beaches for the first time 15 years ago, in May 1969, expecting no feelings at all. Europe seemed so rich and self-content that it was hard to believe that the United States had to come to help. World War II, just 25 years earlier, felt terribly long ago then; in 1969 there was too much war going between my own contemporaries, all of it bad, the just cause not having leaped the generational gap. I had just returned from Biafra reporting on a ghastly and lunatic war of starved children and big oil interests, and the news in the papers was of Hamburger Hill, the tag name for a place the U.S. Army was having trouble capturing in Vietnam. The stories made clear that there were grunts who did not want to go into the fire, and the accounts, I thought, were written with the sympathy of the times, and probably often read that way too.
.
I got to Pointe du Hoc mostly by accident then because the road was not well marked and seemed to peter out in the fields. The wind jumps up from the sea as you get closer, and the fields begin to roll and dip, cratered by the Allied offshore bombardment. At the edge of the cliffs, the wind is a smack, and D-Day becomes wildly clear: climbing that cutting edge into the bullets. The first men came up on rope, and then ladders belonging to the London Fire Department. The Germans, firing down at them, even rolling boulders over the precipice, killed more Americans in the first wave than those who got to the top.
.
The day I was there, a man paced around Pointe du Hoc as if he were taking measurements for a linoleum company. His name was Robert Fruling, he worked in a spare parts department in West Palm Beach, Florida, and he was looking around because he had come up the cliffs as a Ranger. I heard how he got hell for losing the radio he was toting, and how a bullet went through his helmet, kindly following a path that avoided his head. He talked about the place with a kind of chirpy good humor for a while and then he stopped. About 75 men of the 235 he came ashore with survived. "We got it, and we got it," he said, and turned away. He bent over shaking with sobs.
.
There is as much death as glory now at Pointe du Hoc, and somehow, in a recriminating 1984 Europe, a disenchanted one, the battlefield and D-Day seem more real than in 1969. Do we discuss going up the cliff? Not here. Pointe du Hoc offers its own conclusions, a battlefield never gone quite still.
.
The quiet lies elsewhere, its emotions strong. The American cemetery at Saint-Laurent-sur-Mer is a great lawn at the edge of the sea, white marble crosses and Stars of David against an open horizon. It is a graceful, light, uncomplicated place. I think of it as very American in the best sense: no phony piety, simple, easy. The graves are the message, and they are left alone: long rows, long rows, long rows. Unequivocal. The monument is inscribed with monument-inscription language, but minus the tremolo, it is right: "This embattled shore, portal of freedom, is forever hallowed by the ideas, valor and sacrifice of our fellow countrymen." At Cambe, near Isigny, away from the sea, and off a main road, there is a German cemetery. It is a very different place, a powerful one, not so simple, not so certain, one that is more of this than that other time. The headstones are low and dark, almost black, looking like Knight's Crosses. The grass is let to grow high, and it moves in the wind against the dark stones. The Germans executed scores of French hostages at Caen, nearby, the night of the invasion, but no one has ever touched, tried to vandalize, these graves. They have extraordinary dignity. As much as Saint-Laurent seems American in its emotions, as much as it seems to reflect the right war and its cost, La Cambe strikes me as German; it has real beauty, and a dark, melancholy strength.
.
How do you mark the graves of a defeated army, fighting for monstrous goals, on the land of a country it had conquered? "Here lie German soldiers," one inscription says. On a pedestal in the same dark stone, old parents huddle and grieve. And this, chiseled deep: "God has the last word."
.
This is the 40th anniversary of D-Day. The law of round numbers and memorial reflection probably mean that the next time people think about it much is in another 10 years. In spite of Normandy's forgetting meadows, the cliffs and the graveyards will not lose their strength, their terror, their message.








US and France: We still need each other
  	
Felix G. Rohatyn NYT
	
Saturday, June 5, 2004
U.S.-France
 
NEW YORK On Sunday, President George W. Bush will stand at attention next to President Jacques Chirac of France at the American military cemetery near Omaha Beach. Thousands of Frenchmen and Americans will mingle on the site to remember, mourn and celebrate the young men who died in the Normandy landings 60 years ago.
.
While there are, today, some Americans who like to think that the French don't remember D-Day, that is far from the truth; they do remember, and they are grateful. I travel to France regularly and it is one of the most beautiful countries in the world - one that is inhabited by some of the most intelligent and, yes, complicated people in the world. On one subject, the French are united: they are consumed with anxiety (and curiosity) about the decline of the French-American relationship. Despite the hostility generated by the war in Iraq, they wish for the relationship to be better.
.
On the American side of the ocean, there is no such curiosity, much less anxiety. There is only a certain dismissiveness and this silent reproach: "They don't remember." That is both untrue and self-defeating. It is difficult to understate France's importance to Europe - and to us.
.
To repair the relationship, though, we need to understand how it unraveled. While the mistakes made by both our governments in the run-up to the Iraq war did grave damage, they are only part of the story. The United States and France have been moving apart in fundamental ways for a long time now.
.
As the world has changed - shaped by the end of the Soviet threat, the economics of globalization and the rise of terrorism - France, Europe and America have inevitably changed, too.
.
The election of Bush and the events of 9/11 intensified the pace of change in America. America's immediate focus became a global war on terrorism: absolute military domination was combined with the concept of pre-emptive war. Americans became more patriotic, and struggled with the reality that we were both invincible and vulnerable.
.
This was in stark opposition to what was going on in Europe. Just as we were becoming more warlike and unilateral, France and Europe were working toward European integration while trying to minimize conflict wherever possible.
.
Our economies were also diverging. While in the 1960s and 1970s we were on reasonably parallel paths, the American economy began to surge ahead of France's in the 1980s, the result of higher population growth, increased productivity and large investments in technology. America's interests also turned increasingly toward countries like China, India and Russia. The priorities of France, meanwhile, revolved more and more around European enlargement and its own role in Europe.
.
I had the privilege of serving as ambassador at a time when the French-American relationship was quite positive, despite serious problems with respect to Iraq and any number of other issues, from genetically modified foods to the death penalty. The military cooperation in the Balkans was excellent, the economic partnership was booming and the personal relationships between Chirac and President Bill Clinton, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine were solid.
.
Even then, though, one could sense that the relationship was evolving. When Vedrine referred to "American hegemony" and to the United States as a "hyperpower," Albright took it as criticism. In fact, it was more a combination of admiration, envy and fear, expressed by a sophisticated Frenchman. And all those fears came true when we marched into Iraq, and brought war to the outer borders of Europe.
.
Today, there is no such thing as old and new Europe; they are both the European Union, which has been evolving for 50 years. There is, however, a "new America," and it looks at Europe with a certain disdain because we believe that our main interests are elsewhere. To some extent, however, the same can be said for France. Yet America is beginning to realize that solitude, even for a global superpower, may not be the best policy. The Bush administration's request for UN assistance in Iraq and the cooperation with France in Haiti may be belated recognition of the reality that America needs the legitimacy conferred by the international community when it exercises its power.
.
I have seen France at its most tragic in 1940, and I have seen it at its best in later years. Although there will still be differences about Iraq and other issues, I know that France and America need each other strategically, economically, culturally.
.
And beyond that, there is the history buried in the cemetery of Omaha Beach. We need a relationship built on mutual respect as well as mutual interest. Perhaps it will be rekindled on Omaha Beach.
.
Felix G. Rohatyn was the United States ambassador to France from 1997 to 2001.





   	 A German childhood healed by GIs
  	
Karl Kaiser IHT
	
Friday, June 4, 2004
CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts In the last days of April 1945, the Allied front was approaching my home town in southern Westphalia. Around us were the signs of a collapsing country: smoking ruins, battered German troops moving through the town, old men - including my father, whose World War I wounds had until then protected him from front-line duty - being rushed to the Ruhr area for a last-ditch defense
.
My life as a 10-year-old was not much different from the lives of the adults: bombed repeatedly inside and outside shelters, learning to appreciate ditches when free-roaming fighter planes shot at everything that moved on the ground.
.
It must have been the spreading sense of doom and possibly the impact of the ongoing propaganda about "Anglo-American terror tactics" that led my mother to conclude that a battle in the city would be worse than anything we had experienced so far. So we fled to the countryside, with the help of a pound of coffee, in a truck propelled by those amazing wood-burning engines of the time, two people always scanning the skies for planes.
.
However, when we arrived at our destination, an isolated forester's house with a broad view on a valley, matters quickly worsened. The retreating German army established a headquarters there while we, along with a dozen other women and children, crouched in the cellar, listening with growing concern to the hectic activity upstairs and the approaching rumble of artillery and tanks.
.
Suddenly there was a lot of shouting and running above us, and the Germans left, followed first by silence, then the clank of what were obviously American tanks. They stopped outside the house. Over the idling engines we heard the door to the cellar being thrown open. Would they now toss a grenade down, as we assumed Americans always did? We heard a person cautiously coming down the steps and stopping in front of our door. We remained totally silent, expecting something terrible to happen. Suddenly the door was pushed open, and the barrel of a rifle appeared, followed very slowly by an American helmet. The soldier under itquietly surveyed us, then smiled and said, "Hi." The war was over. We were alive.
.
Only later did I realize how the humane treatment of civilians by the U.S. Army, indeed their friendly behavior (defying in many cases General Dwight D. Eisenhower's orders against fraternization) not only undid the negative images of America created by Nazi propaganda, but also helped a generation of young Germans to grow up with a positive image of American soldiers.
.
In that forester's house I listened to the Americans talking with the grownups, through a teacher of English in our group, about what had been wrong with the Hitler regime. The Americans shared C-rations with us kids and established order in our town when it was threatened by chaos. When looters attacked our house I ran to the nearby U.S. Army headquarters for help, and an American soldier jumped in a truck with me, rushed to our place and dispersed the bandits by shooting in the air. Countless young American officers helped to restart towns all over Germany. That American troops remained throughout the cold war to protect us and to preserve a free Berlin solidified the positive image.
.
Strangely it was the images of Germans with tears in their eyes when American soldiers left Berlin in 1994 that flashed through my mind when I saw the horrible pictures of American soldiers mistreating and torturing prisoners in Abu Ghraib. Although suspicions about Guantánamo had already begun undermining the image of American military forces, the shock effect of those revelations on America's allies was and remains profound.
.
America's friends in Europe and presumably all over the globe now invest their hope in the corrective power and strength of democracy in the United States, which sacrificed so many thousands of its soldiers to uphold these very values on our side of the Atlantic 60 years ago.
.
Karl Kaiser, a former research director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, is a visiting scholar at Harvard University's Weatherhead Center for International Affairs.








The white star of freedom
  	
IHT
	
Friday, June 4, 2004
PARIS In Auschwitz, June 6, 1944, was a day like any other. Hitler's cattle trains were discharging their human cargo for mass destruction at the same hellish pace. The death toll in the gas chambers that day was higher even than the enormous losses suffered by the combined armies under General Dwight Eisenhower's command.
.
We had every reason to believe that the war was irrevocably lost, that the Red Army had been smashed, that England was fighting alone against the seemingly invincible forces of darkness. And America? It was so far away, so divided, so unprepared. How could it be expected to reverse the tide of doom?
.
It took weeks for news of the invasion, beamed by the BBC, to slip into the camp via the Polish resistance. There was also a rumor that the Russians had mounted an offensive on the eastern front. Oh, to hang on a little longer! I was 15 and I wanted to live.
.
We could tell from the growing nervousness of our guards that the weight of battle was shifting. They were herding us deeper into Germany. It was in a slave labor enclave of Dachau that I heard for the first time the silence of the night torn by distant explosions. Within hours we were evacuated again, ahead of the "enemy advance." These magic, intoxicating words were now openly murmured.
.
My final death march continued day and night, halting only for meager rations of bread and water. At dawn, on the third day, a squadron of Allied fighter planes, mistaking our column for Wehrmacht troops, swooped down to strafe us. As the SS-men hit the dirt, their machine guns blazing, their vicious dogs growling, a comrade near me shouted, "Run for it!" A group of us made a clumsy sprint for the trees. Only five reached the forest alive. We kept running, gasping for breath, until we collapsed. There was no sound of pursuit; just the thunder of our hearts and the long-forgotten music of chirping birds.
.
At night we began moving toward the western front. One bucolic afternoon, holed up in the hayloft of an abandoned Bavarian barn, I became aware of a hum, like a swarm of bees, only louder, metallic, unearthly. I peeped though a crack in the wooden slats. Across the field, a huge tank, leading a military convoy, lumbered my way. From somewhere to one side I could hear the firing of mortars. The tank's cannon turned and let loose a deafening blast. The firing stopped. The tank resumed its cautious advance.
.
I looked for the hated swastika. Instead I saw an unfamiliar emblem - a five-pointed white star. In an instant the unimaginable flooded my soul. After so many tortures and humiliations in the pit of the abyss, I was beholding the glorious insignia of the U.S. Army.
.
With a wild roar, I ran toward the wondrous vision, waving my arms. Suddenly, the hatch of an armored vehicle opened, and a face shielded by helmet and goggles emerged, swearing at me unintelligibly. At that instant I felt immortal, though to the startled GI my situation must have seemed desperate indeed. Pistol in hand, he jumped to the ground to examine me more closely, as if to make sure that the kid was not booby-trapped.
.
To signal that I was a friend, and in need of help, I fell to my knees, threw my arms around his legs, summoned the few English words my mother used to sigh while dreaming of our deliverance, and yelled: "God Bless America!" With an unmistakable gesture the tall American motioned me to get up, and lifted me through the hatch - into the womb of freedom.
.
Today, when a wave of anti-Americanism is sweeping the world, when GIs are accused of being amoral and sadistic, the survivor in me exclaims, "Never forget the courageous soldier and the compassionate army that once brought you life and liberty." But the jurist in me cautions, "Those responsible for the scandalous mistreatment of prisoners of war must be brought to justice."
.
I have learned from bitter experience that war is ugly and chaotic. In Iraq, its management has been undermined by serious errors of strategy and outrageous lapses of discipline. Small wonder that America's vigorous democracy is in the throes of a soul-searching debate on its thankless mission as liberator of the oppressed.
.
Yet, in the explosive Middle East, where the stakes are colossal for all concerned, its responsibilities are as vital as they are difficult. Were the United States to succumb to isolationist ghosts, it would disastrously weaken those striving for security, tolerance and progress in a terrorist-ridden world, when Al Qaeda is threatening to sow havoc on all continents.
.
At this critical juncture, when sovereignty is being transferred to Iraqis, responsible leaders on all continents, even those who opposed the war, must reach out for an international consensus and a common strategy to stabilize Iraq and combat global terrorism, in the same spirit of international and trans-Atlantic solidarity with allies and adversaries that won the peace after World War II and, ultimately, the cold war. Such, it seems to me, is the message and the warning of D-Day.
.
Samuel Pisar, an international lawyer in Paris and New York, is the author of "Of Blood and Hope."




France   

	 Chirac's offer to Sarkozy: A poisoned chalice?
  	
Katrin Bennhold/IHT 
	
Friday, June 25, 2004
PARIS In the latest chapter of the simmering power struggle between France's two most closely watched politicians, President Jacques Chirac told his finance minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, that he was free to seek the presidency of the ruling party, traditionally seen as paving the way to the presidency.
.
The catch: Sarkozy has to give up his ministerial duties, according to sources close to Chirac.
.
It is yet another poisoned chalice dangling in front of Sarkozy, France's most popular minister, political experts said Thursday.
.
The proposal leaves the 49-year- old Sarkozy with a dilemma: quit his job at the Finance Ministry after barely three months, giving the impression that he puts his career before his country, or stay put and forgo the full-blown support of the financing and campaign machine that is the Union for a Popular Movement, or UMP, ahead of the next presidential election in 2007.
.
"This is very clever maneuvering," said Brice Teinturier, director of political studies at the Paris-based Sofres Institute. "Given how popular Sarkozy is, it would be very difficult for Chirac to oppose his candidacy, so he is trying to stifle his ambitions without saying it."
.
Blocking Sarkozy's candidacy would be politically touchy for several reasons, he said. Chirac's party suffered a humiliating defeat in recent local and European elections.
.
The current president of the party, Alain Juppé, was convicted in January of charges connected with illicit party financing a decade ago and is in the process of appealing.
.
Sarkozy is the most popular member of the government at a time when both Chirac and the prime minister, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, have seen their approval ratings slump.
.
The UMP's leadership contest is planned for an unspecified date in the second half of November.
.
The two men met Tuesday at the presidential Elysée Palace and had a talk that was described as "very cordial" by officials close to Chirac. A Finance Ministry spokesman declined to comment. While a decade ago Sarkozy was a protégé of the president, he fell out of favor in 1995 when backing Edouard Balladur in his failed challenge of Chirac for the presidency in 1995.
.
Since then, Sarkozy has made no secret of his ambition to one day reside in the Elysée Palace himself. When asked in a television interview last year whether he thought about being president when he shaved, he famously replied: "Not only then."
.
And yet, Chirac, who is 71, has been unable to keep Sarkozy out of government: He is too popular. Opinion polls routinely show that Sarko, as he is known by the French media, is the most popular minister in the country and even beats the president approval ratings. According to a poll by Ifop published this month, 49 percent of respondents prefer Sarkozy over Chirac, who garnered 41 percent support. "Sarkozy is very popular," said Bruno Jeanbart, head of political research at the polling company CSA in Paris. "If he runs for the UMP presidency, he can easily win it. Chirac clearly hopes that he won't run after all." The president knows firsthand how important the backing of a political party is in any presidential bid. In France, where private donations to support election campaigns are largely outlawed, the parties are the only source of financing for hopeful candidates. When Chirac won against Balladur in 1995, it was largely due to the support of the UMP's predecessor party, the Rally for the Republic.
.
Chirac's proposal bears risks for both sides, analysts say.
.
The president must avoid to be seen fearing his finance minister, so any attempts to put obstacles in his way must be subtle, Teinturier said. "If Sarkozy makes it look like he is forced out of government after winning the election, he could come out as the victim in the public eye," he said. It is not the first time that an apparently well-meant offer holds risks: After his successful stint as interior minister, Chirac asked Sarkozy to take over the Finance Ministry at a time of sluggish economic growth, high unemployment and unpopular structural reforms. So far that has done little to dent Sarkozy's popularity, though. His outspoken manner, often intruding on terrain traditionally considered the president's preserve, has irked Chirac more than once. He directly contradicted Chirac when, as interior minister last year, he endorsed the idea of affirmative action, a concept considered taboo in France's proudly egalitarian society. And he openly criticized the ban of Muslim headscarves in public schools.
.
International Herald Tribune



Interview in The New Scientist
Saying no to Saddam  	 	
.

For refusing to work on Saddam Hussein's weapons programme, Hussain Al-Shahristani spent 11 years as a prisoner in the infamous Abu Ghraib jail. As Iraq struggles to rebuild, he was recently put forward as a candidate to head the interim government. He explains to Michael Bond why he declined. He is now calling for other scientists around the world to boycott research on all weapons of mass destruction
 
 

How well did you know Saddam Hussein?

I knew Saddam closely because he was head of the Atomic Energy Commission in the 1970s even before he became president.

What was he like?

I was never impressed by him. I knew that he was a vicious man who would not hesitate to send people to be executed when they had very minor differences with him. He never impressed me with any intelligence or insight. Sometimes I thought he made a fool of himself by commenting on scientific issues. At meetings he would mostly just listen to the scientific arguments and then make a decision on what should be done, but on occasions he would comment on subjects I thought he did not have much knowledge of. What was very clear to all of us was his authoritarian style and the way he tried to dominate everybody around him. He behaved as if he was above everybody else, as if he controlled everybody and everything. His word was final and no one else could take decisions.

When he became president of Iraq in 1979 he asked you to work on an atomic weapons programme. What happened?

I was the chief scientific adviser to the Iraqi Atomic Energy Commission when Saddam appointed himself president. He wanted to redirect our research activities from peaceful applications to what were referred to as strategic applications. I refused to work on the programme.

Was that an easy decision to make?

Fairly easy. It was clear to me that any weapons in his hands would be used against the Iraqi people. I could not find myself working on any military programme, particularly for Saddam. In taking that decision I knew what the consequences would be, but I didn't have much choice. The options were either to work with him and enable him to kill tens or hundreds of thousands of people, or to take a stand and pay the price. My religious convictions obliged me to choose the latter.

Yet many of your fellow scientists did agree to work on Saddam's weapons programmes
.

Yes, other scientists were forced to work on them. But of course they needed some convincing: some were arrested, tortured, kept in mental hospitals and so on, and eventually they were persuaded to go back and work on the weapons programme.

What happened to you when you refused?

I was arrested in December 1979. I was interrogated and tortured for 22 days and nights. In my case they were gentler because they did not want to leave any permanent bodily marks on me. They hung me from the ceiling by my hands, which were tied behind my back. They used electric probes on sensitive parts of my body and beat me. There were others in the torture chambers who were treated far worse. In one case I witnessed a guy having holes drilled into his bones with electric drills. The most painful thing in those torture chambers was to hear the screams of children being tortured to extract confessions from their fathers.

What did they do with you then?

I was sentenced to life imprisonment and taken to Abu Ghraib prison near Baghdad. I was visited by Saddam's step-brother, who came to my cell and expressed his disappointment in what they had done to me, and tried to persuade me to go back to my work. He told me there was a place for me at the presidential palace. I said I was not in a position to do so, both physically because I was half-paralysed after being tortured, and also because weapons research was not my specialty. Then he said that any man who was not willing to serve his country did not deserve to be alive. I said that it was our duty to serve our country, but that this was one service I could not do. At this point I was ordered to solitary confinement for 10 years. I was there from May 1980 to May 1990, on Saddam's personal orders.

Psychologically, how did you survive those years?

I tried to keep my mind busy. It was difficult. I made up mathematical problems which I then tried to solve. I spent time trying to remember scientific problems and mentally worked on developing them. Of course there was a limit to what I could do without paper and pencil, and without any reference books and so on. I wasn't allowed anything like that. I was deprived of any books, even a copy of the Koran, newspapers, even Ba'ath party newspapers, and radio. I was completely incommunicado. But I tried to keep my mind alive by going over whatever I knew.

How did you escape?

In those years in solitary confinement the guy responsible for my cell was a fellow prisoner in the service of the security officers. Nobody at this time was allowed to utter a word to me. This guy would come into my cell with a plate of food for me once a day and would not say anything. But one day he talked to me. He said: "Dr Hussein, I know all about you, the whole country respects you, if there is anything I can do let me know and I will do it." I thought it was a ploy by the intelligence officers to trick me. I thanked him and left it at that. But we grew to trust each other, and I planned my escape with him. One night in February 1991, after the invasion of Kuwait, when Baghdad was blacked out and there was an aerial bombardment of the city, we took one of the cars used by the security officers and, dressed in their uniforms, made our escape. We went into hiding in the north and then I left Iraq with my family and became a refugee.

Would you like to see more scientists around the world follow your example and take a stand against unethical practices?

Definitely. Scientists in particular have that moral obligation because people look up to them as the educated who know more than the average person. This puts a heavy burden on them to make sure their knowledge is used for the best of humanity and to serve mankind. I could not disagree more with any scientist who says his concern is his work and that the consequences of his discoveries are irrelevant. You have to think whether the results of your work will harm other people or help them. I don't think anyone with any sense of decency should allow himself or herself to be used as a tool to destroy other people.

Are there any areas of science that especially concern you?

I would like to seek this opportunity to call on fellow scientists around the world to refrain from working on weapons of mass destruction in particular. Such weapons will not enhance national security, but rather encourage rulers to be more aggressive and less compromising in solving international problems.

The west should take the lead in destroying any stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons in its possession and make sure that such weapons are also eliminated from the rest of the world. I would also like to see more progress made on nuclear disarmament in the coming few years.

Your decision not to work on a nuclear weapon stemmed, you said, from your religious convictions. Has your faith ever put you in conflict with your science?

On the contrary. Muslims were told by Prophet Mohammed that they should seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave. He also told Muslims that knowledge that is of no benefit to the people is useless knowledge. So we are encouraged not only to seek knowledge but also to make sure that the knowledge we acquire is of benefit to humanity. I do not find a conflict between my religious values and my science; on the contrary, I think it was my religious understanding to seek knowledge and make sure it is put to the good of humanity that made me take the stand I took.

What did you do in exile?

I devoted my time to helping fellow refugees. I chair the Iraqi Refugee Aid Council, which helps refugees who had to flee the country because of Saddam. I went back to Iraq on a humanitarian mission on 7 April 2003, two days before the fall of the regime in Baghdad. We took humanitarian supplies, food, medicine and water to Basra.

Since then we have moved to the central and southern parts of the country, discussing with the poorest communities their most urgent needs. We have carried out scores of projects helping local clinics obtain medicines, fixing the schools, repairing water pipelines, putting in street lighting and so on.

We are also supporting families that are headed by women, and rehabilitating former political prisoners who have been deprived of any education, training or job opportunities. We are looking at the most vulnerable groups in the society and trying to create opportunities for them.

What has it been like for scientists in Iraq since the end of the war?

It has been very difficult for the whole population, but perhaps more so for the scientists. Saddam forced the majority of the competent scientists, professionals and technologists to work on his military programmes, to develop his weapons of mass destruction, chemical, biological and nuclear. After the fall of the regime all these activities ceased, so most of these scientists have been left without jobs, even though some of them may still be paid salaries. There isn't any real work for them. It is hard for a scientist to sit around and do nothing. There are no facilities for them to work in. A primary task in the reconstruction is to rebuild those facilities and engage these scientists in a way that would really benefit the country and serve the people. I am sorry to say that there has not been much progress on this front.

Why did you turn down the opportunity to be Iraq's interim prime minister?

I was not assured of the full cooperation of the major political parties. Without that cooperation it would be impossible to put together an interim government that would effectively prepare for and carry out general elections. Since preparing for the first fair and free elections in the country was my prime consideration for the interim government, I decided I could not accept that responsibility.

Do you see yourself getting involved in Iraqi politics sometime in the future?

I do not see myself taking part in political activity as such. But if, after the elections, I am asked by the National Assembly to take up a responsibility that I consider being of service to the country, particularly in developing science and technology for reconstruction, then I might consider accepting that.

Now for the $64,000 question: do you think there were any weapons of mass destruction in Iraq when the war started last year?

For all practical purposes, most of the chemical, biological and nuclear weapons and facilities were dismantled and destroyed in the second half of the 1990s. This doesn't mean they were all completely destroyed. I had the impression from talking to people who were working in Iraq in the second half of the 1990s that there were small quantities left: vials of germs and quantities of culture media that could be used to resume production of biological warfare agents. Of course there was the know-how and the political will if Saddam had been given the chance.
 
	  	


Polio in Africa

West and central Africa is on the brink of the largest polio epidemic in recent years, international polio experts are warning.

The case of a child being paralysed by the disease on 20 May in the troubled Darfur region of Sudan was confirmed on Tuesday. This prompted an alert from the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, which consists of experts from the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF, Rotary International and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

The polio case is the first in Sudan for three years. And the wild poliovirus is spreading rapidly in the region. Five times as many children in west and central Africa have been paralysed by polio in 2004 than during the same time period in 2003.

"There is no question that the virus is spreading at an alarming pace," says David Heymann, the WHO's representative for polio eradication. "The fact that the Sudan is now re-infected is concrete evidence of the need to support a massive immunisation response right across west and central Africa."

He stresses: "At the beginning of 2003, only two countries in sub-Saharan Africa were polio endemic. Today, however, Africa accounts for nearly 90 per cent of the global polio burden, with children now paralysed in 10 previously polio-free countries across the continent."

Fears of a major epidemic have been fuelled by the spread of polio from Nigeria to previously polio-free countries. In October 2003, three regions in northern Nigeria suspended their polio immunisation programmes amid rumours that the vaccine was laced with reproductive hormones and HIV as part of a western plot to depopulate Africa.


High season

Following tests in November 2003, two of the states subsequently re-started their programmes (New Scientist, 18 November 2003). But the state of Kano announced only in May 2004 that it was resuming the programme with vaccines it had sourced from Indonesia (New Scientist, 18 May 2004). It is the epicentre of the outbreak, says WHO.

The virus in Darfur has been shown to be genetically linked to the poliovirus type endemic in northern Nigeria. Experts are now worried that a major epidemic could break out as autumn - the polio "high season" - approaches, leaving thousands of children paralysed.

"What this adds up to is a virus and an epidemic that is gathering speed rather than slowing down at the end of the low season," says Bruce Aylward, a WHO polio expert, according to AFP.


Especially vulnerable
 

Less than half of the children in the region are immunised against polio and many other diseases. Experts are recommending that 22 African countries hold massive, synchronised immunization campaigns in October and November to reach 74 million children.

Since the suspension of the campaigns in Nigeria, 197 Nigerian children have been paralysed by polio.

Polio has already been exported from Nigeria to numerous other African countries and fears it could reach Sudan prompted the addition of the polio vaccine to an ongoing measles immunisation campaign in Darfur.

Children in Darfur are especially vulnerable to disease because of malnourishment and being displaced from their homes. Over a million people have been forced from their homes by internal conflict in Sudan.
 

Shaoni Bhattacharya
