 By Paul Gallagher

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (Reuters) - The World Court said Friday it would rule on the legality of Israel's West Bank barrier next month in a case underlining a stalemate in peace efforts after more than three years of violence.

The International Court of Justice, also known as the World Court, will render its judgment on the legality of the West Bank network of fences and walls in a public hearing on July 9, one of the most high-profile rulings in its 58-year-history.

Israel says the barrier has been built to keep Palestinian suicide bombers out of its cities. Palestinians call the structure -- which cuts deep into the West Bank in places -- a land grab that would thwart their dream of a viable state. The court held hearings on its legality in February.

The network snakes into the West Bank in some sections and in others runs close to the "Green Line" boundary between Israel and the West Bank before the 1967 Middle East war. Plans call for the barrier to stretch about 420 miles, with 115 miles built so far.

The United Nations' top court said it would hand down an "advisory opinion." Such a ruling is nonbinding, but Israel fears the General Assembly, where pro-Palestinian sentiment is strong, could use it to lobby for sanctions against the Jewish state.

"After all the legal affidavits that have been presented to the international court, and since the wall is being built on occupied land, we expect that the court will condemn it," Palestinian Communications and Information Minister Azzam al-Ahmed told Reuters.

"We also expect that the court will demand that Israel demolish what has been built," he said.

A dozen countries including Jordan, Cuba, South Africa and Saudi Arabia, gave oral testimony on behalf of Palestinians in February. The Israeli government boycotted the hearings, saying the case was political and beyond the court's jurisdiction.

"The reason why Israel built the fence -- the suicide bombers -- unfortunately ... still exists," Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman David Saranga said.

"The fact that it took the court so long to decide, shows that as opposed to what the Palestinians and other countries said, that (the issue) is so urgent, the court apparently doesn't think it is so urgent," he said.

Although they have criticized the barrier's route, the United States and European Union declined to appear at the hearings in February, saying they fear a court ruling could complicate peace efforts.

The case stems from a Palestinian request -- backed by the United Nations General Assembly -- to decide whether Israel is legally obliged to tear down its barrier. (Additional reporting by Allyn Fisher-Ilan in Jerusalem and Mohammed Assadi in Ramallah)

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved. 



By Sebastian Alison

ENNIS, Ireland (Reuters) - Thousands of troops, police and protesters took up positions across a swathe of western Ireland on Friday ahead of the arrival of President Bush for a summit with the European Union.

Bush was due to arrive at Shannon airport at around 1500 EDT, amid local outrage at the measures taken to secure his safety, while much of the population is deeply unhappy over hosting him while U.S. troops are occupying Iraq.

"Fury and fear as town is turned into a fortress," read the headline in the Irish Examiner, quoting the mayor of Shannon as saying the town's residents were being made into a potential target for a terrorist attack.

"President Bush is coming...at the price of our civil liberties and free movement of people in their own place," complained local newspaper The Clare Champion.

But an Irish police spokeswoman said that by early afternoon on Friday there were no problems with traffic or protesters, as over 4,000 police and 2,000 troops patrolled with armored vehicles, water cannon and helicopters in brilliant sunshine.

Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU until the end of the month, is hosting the summit at the 16th century Dromoland Castle, which has been completely sealed off by the unprecedented security operation.

Bush will be accompanied by Secretary of State Colin Powell, Commerce Secretary Don Evans, National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice, and possibly U.S. Trade Representative Bob Zoellick.

The EU side will be headed by Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, European Commission President Romano Prodi, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana, External Relations Commissioner Chris Patten, Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy, and Transport and Energy Commissioner Loyola de Palacio.

TIGHT SECURITY IN TURKEY

The U.S. team is due in Ireland only for around 18 hours before heading on to Istanbul, Turkey, for a NATO summit. Security was also tight there after bombs in Istanbul and the capital, Ankara, killed four people on Thursday.

The EU-U.S. summit, which formally starts at 11.00 a.m (1000 GMT) on Saturday, is set to focus on political links between the two sides, rather than the economic links which form the mainstay of relations between the two huge trade partners.   

It is the first such summit since the EU expanded last month to take in 10 new countries, raising its population to 450 million, and the first since EU leaders agreed to adopt a constitutional treaty for the bloc a week ago.

EU diplomats say the bloc wants to use this new-found unity, in sharp contrast to the divisions which split its members in the run-up to last year's Iraq war, to show the U.S. side that it is a major political actor and not just a trade bloc.

To back this up, the two sides will agree joint statements on a range of primarily political issues, such as Iraq, the Middle East, counter-terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, as well as on economic questions.

But there will also be a meeting of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, bringing together chief executives of some of the largest companies from both sides of the Atlantic, and the two sides will sign a cooperation agreement between the European Galileo and U.S. GPS satellite navigation systems.

In 2003, the EU exported goods worth 220 billion euros ($267 billion) to the United States, importing 151 billion euros' ($183 billion) worth. Two-way foreign direct investment between the partners was worth over 1.5 trillion euros in 2002. ($1=.8245 Euro)

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved. 


 By Isabel Garcia-Zarza

HAVANA (Reuters) - An independent Cuban journalist walked out of prison to become the sixth ailing government opponent freed after a crackdown on dissent last year, opposition sources said on Thursday.

Manuel Vazquez Portal, 52, who suffers from respiratory problems, was one of 75 dissidents sentenced to an average of 19 years in prison after daylong trials in April 2003.

"He arrived home around midnight and looked well," said Laura Pollan, wife of still-imprisoned Hector Maseda.

Academic Roberto de Miranda, 62, who had been sentenced to 20 years behind bars, was also released on Wednesday. He suffers from a heart condition.

The first of the six was released in April and all were conditionally freed for health reasons.

Last year's crackdown, considered the harshest in decades, provoked an outcry from numerous governments, Pope John Paul, and other prominent people.

Communist authorities accused the 75 opponents of working with the United States to overthrow President Fidel Castro's government, a charge they denied.

The repression led to a dramatic deterioration of Cuba's relations with the European Union, which continues to demand all 75 prisoners be freed.

In a separate case, four other dissidents were unexpectedly released this month after being held for more than two years without trial.

But another 16 government opponents have been jailed since April, according to veteran human rights activist Elizardo Sanchez.

Amnesty International reported this year that there were 88 prisoners of conscience in Cuba.

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved. 



 By Jack Kim and Teruaki Ueno

BEIJING (Reuters) - A North Korean warning that some of its leaders wanted to test a nuclear device overshadowed six-way talks Friday aimed at resolving the North's nuclear crisis, with a U.S. official saying there had been no breakthrough.

"We are far from agreement," the official in Beijing said.

U.S. officials said the comment about a nuclear test, made in a two-hour meeting between Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly and North Korean negotiators in Beijing Thursday, resembled those from Pyongyang in the past.

It raised doubts even faint progress could be achieved as the third round of talks among North and South Korea, the United States, Japan, Russia and China ended their third day. The previous rounds ended with agreement only to meet again.

The U.S. official, speaking to reporters in the Chinese capital, confirmed the North Korean delegation raised the issue of a nuclear test, but not as a threat.

"They did say something to the effect that there were some persons not identified in DPRK (North Korea) that want to test a nuclear weapon and presumably might do so," the official told reporters.

"It was put as a sort of statement intended, I guess, to interest us. It was not phrased as a threat. But we made clear that we would certainly not welcome any such thing and we believe that any such thing would be a very unwise choice."

The U.S. official stressed there had been no breakthroughs.

"Looking at the last two days, I would say there's some good, some bad, some a little ugly but not as much as been the case in the past. The results would have to be described as mixed so far. There are no breakthroughs."

China said a consensus had been reached a freeze would be the first step to the denuclearization of North Korea.

"This round of talks already has reached some results -- a fundamental political consensus exists that a nuclear freeze is the first step toward denuclearization and corresponding measures should be adopted," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue told a news conference.    Continued ...

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved. 



ASADABAD, Afghanistan (Reuters) - Two U.S. Marines were killed and one wounded when their patrol was ambushed during an operation against Islamic militants in eastern Afghanistan, military officials said on Friday.

The Marines were killed in Kunar province, which borders Pakistan, on Thursday evening, said military spokeswoman Master Sergeant Cindy Beam.

She said the wounded Marine was hurt by gunfire, but she said she did not know how the two were killed.

The attack happened in a mountainous district called Naray close to the border with Pakistan, residents there said. They said they saw the bodies of the two Marines and they appeared to have been shot with AK-47 assault rifles.

Mohammad Zaman Malang, a top military commander in Kunar's capital Asadabad, said the Marines came under fire as they were moving through a valley.

"They were going up on foot and were fired on with heavy and light machineguns," he said.

Malang said the U.S. patrol called in air support and U.S. aircraft dropped bombs, but it was not clear if any attackers were hit. He said the planes were again circling on Friday.

He said the ambush could have been the work of militants loyal to a fundamentalist warlord, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Taliban or al Qaeda, all of whom are active in the area.

The deaths took to 59 the number of U.S. personnel killed in combat in Afghanistan since U.S.-led forces overthrew the Taliban for sheltering Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda after the September 11 attacks in 2001.

The Taliban and their allies have declared a holy war against U.S.-led forces and clashes have mounted as September elections, which the militants have vowed to disrupt, approach.

This month, a U.S. soldier was killed and two were wounded when their vehicle was hit by an explosion in the central province of Uruzgan.

Four U.S. special forces soldiers were killed in action in the southern province of Zabul in late May, in one of the worst losses for U.S. forces since the overthrow of the Taliban late in 2001.    Continued ...

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved.




WASHINGTON (Reuters) - For the first time since the start of the war in Iraq, a majority of Americans now say the U.S.-led invasion was a mistake, according to a USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll released on Thursday.

Amid continuing violence in Iraq and questions about the justification for the war, 54 percent of the 1,005 Americans polled said it was a mistake to send U.S. troops into Iraq, compared with 41 percent who held that view three weeks ago.

The findings mark the first time since Vietnam that a majority of Americans has called a major deployment of U.S. forces a mistake, USA Today reported on its Web site.

In addition, the poll found that for the first time a majority also said the war in Iraq has made the United States less safe from terrorism.

Fifty-five percent said the war has increased U.S. vulnerability, compared to a December poll in which 56 percent said the war made the United States safer.

The war's original justification was to stop Iraq deploying weapons of mass destruction. None have been found.

President Bush has also said the Iraq mission would make America safer by bringing democracy to a key country in the Middle East.

In Iraq on Thursday, insurgents killed about 100 people in a wave of attacks across the country aimed at sabotaging next week's transfer of power to an interim Iraqi government.

Despite Americans' changing attitudes toward the war, the poll found Bush in a statistical dead heat with presumptive Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry. Among likely voters, Bush edged out Kerry 48 percent to 47 percent. Three weeks ago, Kerry led 49 percent to 43 percent.

In the new poll, 60 percent of respondents said they believe the Massachusetts Democrat could handle the job of commander-in-chief, but most Americans indicated they trust Bush more in that role, 51 percent to 43 percent.

The survey, conducted Monday through Wednesday, has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved. 



WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former U.S. Vice President Al Gore on Thursday accused President Bush of telling "an artful and important lie" soon after the Sept. 11 attacks to set the stage for war on Iraq.

"Beginning very soon after the attacks of 9/11, President Bush made a decision to start mentioning Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein in the same breath in a cynical mantra designed to fuse them together as one in the public's mind," Gore said in a speech at Georgetown University Law Center.

Gore, a Democrat who lost to Bush in a White House race ultimately decided by the Supreme Court despite winning the popular vote in 2000, cited the recent report by the Sept. 11 commission saying no credible evidence existed of a link between the Iraqi leader and bin Laden.

He said Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney continue to argue for a connection between bin Laden's al Qaeda network and the deposed Iraqi regime because it supports their push for war in Iraq and justifies "some of the new power they've picked up from the Congress and the courts" since the 2001 hijack attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

"As a result, President Bush is now intentionally misleading the American people," Gore said. "Indeed, Bush's consistent and careful artifice is itself evidence that he knew full well that he was telling an artful and important lie -- visibly circumnavigating the truth over and over again as if he had practiced how to avoid encountering the truth."

In an hour-long address punctuated by polite laughter and applause, Gore also accused the Bush administration of working closely "with a network of 'rapid response' digital Brown Shirts who work to pressure reporters and their editors for 'undermining support for our troops."'

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved.




TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan will consider using unique biological data about individuals such as fingerprints and facial features to tighten immigration controls as part of its counter-terrorism policy, government officials said Wednesday.

The move would be in line with measures in many other countries, including the United States, which has begun fingerprinting and photographing most visitors from abroad in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks.

Japan has decided to introduce passports with chips containing so-called biometrics information next year, and would look into whether to make use of such data in screening foreign visitors, the officials said.

Calls for tighter immigration controls have gained momentum since revelations last month that al Qaeda might have attempted to build a network in Japan.

Japanese police arrested several foreigners in May in an investigation into the activities of a French national with links to al Qaeda who entered Japan on a false passport in 2002 and stayed for over a year.

But Tokyo has not made any decisions yet, given concerns that stricter immigration controls might turn off tourists thinking about visiting Japan and due to criticism by some human rights groups that the use of biometrics was a violation of individual rights.

"Biometrics may lead to a strengthening of surveillance of society," said Makoto Teranaka, secretary-general of Amnesty International's Japan branch.

"There must be utmost caution in how such information is gathered and how it is used," he said.

A working team of officials, including those from foreign and justice ministries, plan to start discussions on the issue later this month, officials said.

"We are aware of the debate over private information and the potential impact on our tourism policy," said an official at the Cabinet Office.

Japan has set up a goal to double the number of tourists to Japan by 2010 -- about 5.73 million foreigners entered Japan in 2003 -- to turn around its huge deficit in tourism.

In 2001, the latest year for which official figures are available, Japan had a $23 billion deficit on tourism, with Japanese travelers spending $26 billion abroad, while visitors to Japan spent $3 billion.

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved. 




 By Claudia Parsons

ROME (Reuters) - Mariolina Moioli dreams of bringing civilization to Italy's chaotic streets.

That means the end of an era for carefree 14-year-olds who for generations have been allowed to drive scooters without so much as a permit or a driving lesson.

The sight of adolescents buzzing around on their scooters is as quintessentially Italian as pizza and pasta -- as are the daily reports of teen-agers killed after speeding along the Tiber or running a red light in Rome's hectic traffic.

"We're not going to save the world, but it's something," said Moioli, explaining a plan to teach "good behavior" on the roads as part of the preparation for the introduction of a "mini-license" for under-18s wanting to drive scooters. Hundreds of thousands of teen-agers now face the prospect of having to park their beloved Vespas starting July 1 or pay a fine of more than $600 if they are caught without the mini-license.

Currently anybody is allowed to drive a scooter with an engine of 50 cc from the age of 14 without a license.

"It's about behavior and values, about respect for life, how to behave with others, basically how to drive in a civilized way," said Moioli, director general of the Education Ministry.

But 17-year-old Giovanni De Angelis and many fellow teen-agers are crying foul.

"It ridiculous. For more powerful motorbikes maybe it makes sense but not for the smaller ones. And maybe for 14-year-olds -- if they're so small they can't even reach the handle bars."

De Angelis will not be taking the exam himself, he added with a shrug, because his scooter has been stolen.

"It's been chaos, at least they should give a bit more time," he said.

Motor organizations also complain that there has been insufficient time to complete the courses and the tests.    Continued ...

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved.




LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co. plans to scale back spending on films, although it aims to remain a Hollywood staple, Chief Executive Michael Eisner and other executives said on Thursday.

"We are reducing our investment in our film businesses," Eisner said in a small meeting with investors and a Wall Street analyst that the company Webcast.

Chief Financial Officer Tom Staggs told the investors that a slate of 13 to 16 films per year for the Disney, Hollywood Pictures and Touchstone labels, produced good results since executives were forced to be selective in the movies they make and market.

"We found there is no direct correlation between spending more and making more in terms of our returns," Chief Operating Officer Bob Iger said.

"We would like to spend less, be more focused, spend more on Disney-branded properties and what I call franchise model pictures" like "Pirates of the Caribbean," he said.

"If we are going to invest in entertainment, I think there are better ways to spend our money than live-action (films), but we are going to continue to invest substantially in it," he said.

Disney's Miramax division also produces films, and Iger said the focus on fewer live-action films could affect negotiations with division chiefs Bob and Harvey Weinstein. Disney has the option to extend their current contract from 2005 to 2009.

"The desire of the company long term is to invest less in live-action movies, and in order to do that, there's got to be some give here and there, and that is sort of where the rubber might meet the road in terms of any future relationship" with the Weinsteins, he said in the meeting with Deutsche Bank's Doug Mitchelson and investors, monitored via Webcast.

FEW PLACES FOR NEW PARKS

Iger also said Disney did not see many more places to build major traditional theme parks around the world beside the one under construction in Hong Kong and a park in Shanghai that Disney is actively considering.

"But we are looking at other concepts," he said, referring to the success of the Disney cruise line pointing to "small parks, weekend concepts" as other possible projects.

Eisner said that he was still looking for the next "chapter" of growth for the company. "I think it is around technology," he said, adding that he was "pretty sure" Disney would stick with creating movies, television and other content rather than exhibition or distribution. He also said the company was focused on international expansion.    Continued ...

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved.





 By Paul Bond

LOS ANGELES (Hollywood Reporter) - Just as his "Fahrenheit 9/11" opens nationwide, several filmmakers are readying documentaries aimed at debunking Michael Moore, and a new film festival is being planned that will feature such works as well as other documentaries well to the right of Moore's films.

Scheduled Sept. 9-11 in Dallas, the American Film Renaissance, as the festival will be known, has just been announced by co-founder Jim Hubbard, who said it is bankrolled primarily by some "big-time conservative donors."

Hubbard currently is negotiating to show two films critical of Moore.

The first is "Michael Moore Hates America," made by newcomer Michael Wilson and funded partially by Brian Cartmell, who made a small fortune when he sold his Internet domain registration company, eNic, to Verisign. The feature film, made for $200,000 and featuring appearances from Penn Jillette and John Stossel, among others, is looking for a theatrical and DVD distribution deal.

The second is the bigger-budget effort "Michael & Me" that was made by talk-radio star and soon-to-be TV host Larry Elder. The 90-minute documentary takes on Moore's 2002 anti-gun documentary, "Bowling for Columbine," Elder said.

"My film is a defense of those who own guns and of the Second Amendment," said Elder, whose "The Larry Elder Show" from Warner Bros. Prods. starts Sept. 13 on CBS affiliates in most major markets.

Elder said that he borrows liberally from Moore, including a "Bowling"-like animated segment that has Elder interviewing an obviously tense Moore. "He's sweating and sweating to the point he's reed thin, then he pulls out a gun and shoots me."

Moore didn't agree to an interview for either Elder's movie or Wilson's. "I did ambush him at a book signing in Santa Monica, and that's in the film," Elder said. "I asked him how many times Americans used guns for defensive purposes. He had nothing. No blooming clue."

For Moore's part, he said he's familiar with the title "Michael Moore Hates America" but doubts the movie even exists, beyond the trailer that can be seen on the Internet.

"You're being duped by the kooky right," he said. "I've been waiting to see this movie. It sounds like great science fiction."

Moore said he hadn't heard of Elder's film "Michael & Me."   


As for the festival, Hubbard said that about 10 films are confirmed, and he'll cap it at about two dozen. Film reviewer Michael Medved is a confirmed guest as is Lionel Chetwynd, whose Showtime movie "DC 9/11," starring Timothy Bottoms as President Bush, will be shown.

"I'm itching to show that anywhere I can," Chetwynd said. "Like with all cable films, you want to keep it out there as long as you can to get it in front of as wide an audience as possible."

Hubbard and wife, Ellen, both attorneys, co-founded the festival in the spirit of competition. Boycott efforts, like the one from the group MoveAmericaForward.org that is asking exhibitors not to show Moore's "Fahrenheit 9/11," "are for the weak," Hubbard said.

"We want everyone to see Michael Moore's film," he said. "We also want everyone to see 'Michael Moore Hates America.' Conservatives complain about institutional bias in Hollywood. They need to stop whining and get out there and produce."

"Documentaries," added filmmaker Wilson, "are not 'Lions of the Serengeti' anymore. In this politically charged climate, they're skewed to an agenda, be it Michael Moore's or mine."

Not all films screened at the American Film Renaissance will invoke Moore. Patrick Wright's documentary, "Is It True What They Say About Ann?" focuses on Ann Coulter, the Fox News pundit.

And the war on terror also is expected to be a dominant theme at the American Film Renaissance.

"Liberal Hollywood has basically ignored the subject," filmmaker Jason Apuzzo said. His entry to the festival is "Terminal Island" and stars his wife, Govindini Murty, with a cameo from Irvin Kershner, director of "The Empire Strikes Back" and "Never Say Never Again." Kershner, who Apuzzo noted does not share the same politics as Apuzzo and Murty, nevertheless mentored the couple in the making of their film.

"Conservative messages don't have a chance in contemporary Hollywood," Apuzzo said. "But there's another side in Hollywood. We are small in numbers but passionate."

"Terminal Island" is a black-and-white feature film about a woman being stalked by a Muslim terrorist who is himself being stalked by a bounty hunter.

"When you shop a script like this around," said Murty, "studio execs say, 'Is this about Muslim terrorists? We don't want to touch it."'

So why have a couple of lawyers from Texas created a film festival? "I've always been interested in the cultural and political messages in film," Jim Hubbard said. "To be frank, whenever there is such a message, it's liberal. For 40 years the left has had a near monopoly, and we're going to counter that."

Reuters/Hollywood Reporter

© Reuters 2004. All Rights Reserved.


 MEXICO: Sanyo official freed in Mexico after ransom paid. 
 Sanyo official freed in Mexico after ransom paid.
 Laura Kaufman 
 TIJUANA, Mexico 1996-08-19
 
 A "tired but apparently unharmed" Japanese electronics executive was freed by kidnappers on Monday after they received $2 million in unmarked $100 bills, government officials said. 
 After nine days in captivity, Mamoru Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co., was found in the basement of an unoccupied building in this northern Mexican city just before 4 a.m. local time. 
 Jose Luis Anaya Bautista, State Attorney General of Baja California, told a news conference the end of the abduction was a two-day ordeal in which the ransom was handed over with no apparent guarantee Konno would be released. 
 He said on Saturday night an officer of Mexico's State Judicial Police drove a Sanyo company vehicle to the La Jolla section of Tijuana where he met two of the alleged kidnappers and handed over an envelope containing $2 million in unmarked $100 bills. 
 At 10 p.m. on Monday night authorities received a call from the kidnappers directing them to an area in the La Mesa district of Tijuana where they found Konno "tired but apparently unharmed" in the basement of a disused building, he said. 
 Anaya said police were looking for six suspects, all believed to be Mexican nationals. 
 "I was pleased to be able to talk to Mr. Konno and to tell him how happy we are to have him back with us safe and sound," Anaya said. "He was very grateful to us for having helped him." 
 Konno was seized on Aug. 10 as he was travelling home to San Diego from a company party and baseball game in Tijuana. 
 He was the first high-ranking foreign executive kidnapped in Mexico in recent years and his abduction fuelled fears that criminals may target some of the thousands of foreign executives who work in factories along the Mexican-U.S. border. 
 Sanyo North America President Moto Haru Iue said: "I express my sincere appreciation for all who helped bring about (Konno's) safe return. Mr. Konno is in good health and relieved it's over." 
 But underscoring some of the doubts that have emerged since the kidnapping about the safety of working in Mexico, he said he did not know if Konno would return to work at the Tijuana plant. "We will have to consider security first," he said. 
 Kidnappings are on the rise in Mexico, fuelled partly by the December 1994 peso crisis and the subsequent deep recession, which threw more than a million people out of work. Experts say amateur and professional criminal gangs, former and current policemen and leftist rebels of the self-styled Popular Revolutionary Army are among the main suspects. 
 Konno's release will remove a cloud over the visit to Mexico, set to begin on Tuesday, by Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto. Hashimoto will visit three other countries during a 10-day tour of Latin America. 
 During the ordeal, Mexican police in Baja California had said they were not involved in any efforts to free Konno, saying they had been officially notified by Sanyo of his abduction. 

 (c) Reuters Limited 1996

 
 
 AUSTRIA: MMK says all in place for 1996 dividend. 
 MMK says all in place for 1996 dividend. 
 VIENNA 1996-08-20
 
 Leading European cartonboard manufacturer Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG (MMK) said on Tuesday it was committed to paying out a dividend for 1996 after scrapping its dividend last year. 
 "The dividend for 1996 has already been secured through payments that have come into the parent company," chief executive Michael Groeller told journalists after presenting the company's first-half earnings. 
 Groeller declined to say how big the dividend would be but said that "our shareholders will be satisfied." 
 Earlier this year investors were miffed when MMK reported an 18 percent jump in 1995 group pre-tax profit to 430 million schillings but decided to scrap its dividend after paying out 14 schillings in 1994. 
 MMK decided to forego a 1995 dividend after profits at the holding company were wiped out by a write-down in Germany, where its FS Karton AG unit suffered significant losses. 
 -- Vienna newsroom, +431 531 12 274 

 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 
 
 PORTUGAL: Portuguese bond report. 
 Portuguese bond report. 
 LISBON 1996-08-20 
 
 Bonds were nudging higher but liquidity was very thin on a day when the Treasury rejected all bids at its five-year bond sale. 
 Traders said the market was going to remain on hold until after the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting later on Tuesday. 
 "There is no desire to do anything in either futures or cash," said one trader. 
 Traders said that the Treasury decision was a clear sign that it was not prepared to accept any increase in yields.   
 Bidded yields had been expected to be higher than the previous sale on July 25 because of uncertainty over the FOMC and the fact that end-users were out of the market. 
 They said demand at the auction only totalled 36 billion for the 20 billion escudos of paper on offer. 
 The escudo was also calm. 
 --Lisbon bureau 3511-3150035 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 
 
 FRANCE: GAN up sharply on CIC report. 
 GAN up sharply on CIC report. 
 PARIS 1996-08-20 
 
 State-controlled insurer GAN jumped up to 6.4 percent on the Paris bourse after a newspaper said savings bank group Caisses d'Epargne was preparing a firm bid for GAN's CIC banking subsidiary. 
 At 1112 GMT, GAN was up 6.7 francs or 5.33 percent at 132.4 francs per share after trading as high as 133.8 francs. 
 Volume however was a thin 7,007 shares. 
 La Tribune Desfosses reported on Tuesday that Caisses d'Epargne, which announced its interest in CIC's upcoming privatisation on August 1, was ready to make a "firm offer" for the regional banking group, of which 67 percent is on sale.   
 Analysts noted Caisses d'Epargne had not publicly contested GAN's book value for CIC of 14.1 billion francs for 100 percent. 
 That would avoid a book loss on the sale for GAN and would mean the state did not have to recapitalise CIC, they said. 
 Analysts said there was also market speculation that Caisses d'Epargne had been persuaded by the state to make an offer for CIC to prevent it going to foreign buyers. 
 Such a move would also mean Caisses d'Epargne using its own funds, which would please commercial banks which want to see the savings bank weakened, they said. Caisses d'Epargne has a monopoly on the popular pass-book Livret A savings account. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996

 
 
 SWITZERLAND: U.S. reacts angrily to Indian nuclear veto. 
 U.S. reacts angrily to Indian nuclear veto. 
 GENEVA 1996-08-20 
 
 The United States reacted angrily on Tuesday to India's formal veto of a nuclear test ban treaty and said it would work to bypass New Delhi's opposition and have the treaty adopted and signed anyway. 
 After a meeting at which India confirmed its veto, U.S. disarmament ambassador Stephen Ledogar accused it of being "insincere" in its arguments against the test ban, telling reporters: "The real reason is that the current government in New Delhi wants to maintain the nuclear weapon option."   
 Earlier, India's Arundhati Ghose told the international Conference on Disarmament that her country could still not accept the treaty text, which it first vetoed in a negotiating committee last week. 
 India, one of three nuclear "threshold states", says that the treaty should include a time-bound commitment by the five declared nuclear powers for total nuclear disarmament. 
 Ledogar said the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty was never meant to be a nuclear disarmament pact until India decided last year that it should be so. 
 He said the United States and other supporters of the treaty would act "in the next few days" to either have the draft treaty introduced to the U.N. General Assembly for signature late next month or would convene an international signature conference outside U.N. auspices. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 


 
 NETHERLANDS: Pakhoed sees rise in H2 ordinary net. 
 Pakhoed sees rise in H2 ordinary net. 
 ROTTERDAM 1996-08-20 
 
 Dutch tank storage and shipping group Pakhoed NV said on Tuesday it expected net profit from ordinary operations in the second half of 1996 to be "clearly higher" than in the same period of 1995.   
 Pakhoed posted a first-half net profit of 4.6 million guilders, down from 61.4 million in the year-ago period. 
 This year's figure included a 54.3 million guilder extraordinary charge because of the sale of the Furness subsidiary and a restructuring of Pakhoed's Rotterdam tank storage operations. 
 "Apart from the costs in relation to the final transfer of Furness we don't expect further extraordinary charges in the second half-year of 1996," the firm said in a statement. 
 It added its leading positions in logistics and distribution would be a strong basis for further earnings development.   
 Pakhoed said the reorganisation would cause substantial cost reductions at the units concerned. In addition, the sale of Furness and the previously announced takeover of U.S. chemicals distributor Univar Corp would have an important effect. 
 "Royal Pakhoed has taken several important measures aimed at implementing the strategic objectives and which will have a substantial effect on Pakhoed's results for 1996 and will put Pakhoed in a much better position for the future," it said. 
 Pakhoed offered $19.45 per Univar share in June. It said it now owned 97 percent of all Univar shares and said the deal had a total value of 521 million guilders.   
 The company used standby facilities to pay for the Univar takeover but said it intends to carry out a refinancing operation in the autumn of this year. 
 "A study is currently under way to determine the extent and conditions of the refinancing, also depending on the financial divesture of Furness and the determination of the goodwill involved in the acquisition of Univar," Pakhoed said. 
 Earlier this month, it said it had reached a tentative agreement on selling Furness to industrial investment firm Hollandia Industriele Maatschappij NV. 
 -- Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 


 AUSTRIA: OMV to press ahead with job cuts. 
 OMV to press ahead with job cuts. 
 VIENNA 1996-08-20 
 
 Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV said on Tuesday it would continue to reduce its cost base over the next few years and aimed to cut its workforce by around four percent annually. 
 OMV employed 8,663 staff on June 30, down from 10,028 at the same time last year. 
 "We have managed to cut our workforce by around 14 percent over the past year. The bulk is behind us but we will continue with the rationalisation," director Walter Hatak told a news conference. 
 "We aim to shed five percent of (existing) staff annually while replacing one percent," he added. 
 -- Janet McBride, Vienna Newsroom 43-1-531 12 254 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



 ITALY: Eni sells five pct of Saipem unit. 
 Eni sells five pct of Saipem unit. 
 ROME 1996-08-20 
 
 Italian energy group Eni said it had sold more than 20 million ordinary shares, or some five percent, in its oilfield services arm Saipem. 
 Eni said in a statement it had reduced its stake in the company to 75 percent but did not say exactly when the shares were sold on the Milan bourse.   
 "The sale of the Saipem stock forms part of Eni's strategy of enlarging the share of (Saipem) on the market and thereby increasing its liquidity," the Eni statement said. 
 The Saipem shares were held by Eni units Agip, Snam and Sofid, the statement said. 
 Saipem shares have surged since the start of the year, trading at 6,630 lire at the time of the Eni announcement against a year low of 3,390 lire recorded on January 16. 
 -- Rome newsroom +396 6782501 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996

 
 
 NETHERLANDS: Pakhoed H1 net profit NLG 4.6 mln. 
 Pakhoed H1 net profit NLG 4.6 mln. 
 ROTTERDAM 1996-08-20 

 Six months to June 30. 
 (in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated) 
     Net profit			     4.6  vs  61.4 
     Turnover (billions)		  1.07 vs   1.08 
     Operating profit		    91.3  vs 110.3 
 Note - Koninklijke Pakhoed NV was expected by analysts to produce a net profit before extraordinary items of between 55 million and 63 million guilders.   
     Net per shr (guilders)	     0.15 vs   2.02 
     Net profit from ordinary ops    58.9  vs  62.0 
     Extraordinary charge		54.3  vs   0.6 
     Interest charges		    19.5  vs  22.3 
     Tax				     12.8  vs  26.0 
 -- Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



 SWITZERLAND: Adia AGM agrees merger with Ecco. 
 Adia AGM agrees merger with Ecco. 
 LAUSANNE, Switzerland 1996-08-20 

 Shareholders of Swiss temporary employment firm Adia SA approved a merger with French-based Ecco SA, to create a new firm Adecco SA. 
 Shareholders voted in favour of the move at a special annual general meeting by approving a capital increase for Adia. 
 Adia said it had been offered 98 percent of Ecco's shares for cash or swap, paving the way for replacing Ecco stock with old and new Adia capital under the name Adecco. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



 AUSTRALIA: Australian Alan Bond jailed for three years. 
 Australian Alan Bond jailed for three years. 
 PERTH, Australia 1996-08-20 
 
 Failed Australian businessman Alan Bond was sentenced to three years in jail on Tuesday for fraud involving the French impressionist painting, La Promenade. 
 The Western Australia District Court sentenced Bond after a jury last Friday found him guilty of four fraud charges, brought by the corporate watchdog the Australian Securities Commission, which carried a maximum sentence of 14 years in jail.   
 Bond, who became a national hero in 1983 for winning the America's Cup yachting trophy, had appealed for a non-custodial sentence. His lawyer argued that a jail term could kill him. 
 But Judge Antoinette Kennedy said she was satisfied Bond's "health problems could be monitored within the prison system". 
 Bond was found guilty of improperly using his position as director of his former corporate flagship, Bond Corporation Holdings, to allow his private company to buy Edouard Manet's La Promenade from Bond Corp for A$2.5 million (US$1.9 million), when its value was at least A$12 million. 
 Bond's Dallhold Investments Pty Ltd sold the painting a year later at auction in New York for A$17 million. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 


 
 
 GERMANY: Bundesbank data show fall in net reserves in week. 
 Bundesbank data show fall in net reserves in week. 
 FRANKFURT 1996-08-20 
 
 Bundesbank data released on Tuesday show that net currency reserves fell to about 102.8 billion marks in the week ending August 15, down from about 103.1 billion marks in the week ending August 7. 
 The Bundesbank provided the following reserve data: (in billion marks) 
  Banking week ended		     Aug 15	     Aug 7 
  Gross currency reserves		119.7		119.6 
  Foreign liabilities		    16.9		 16.5 
 --Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 


 FRANCE: Algerian forces kill five Moslem rebels - paper. 
 Algerian forces kill five Moslem rebels - paper. 
 PARIS 1996-08-20 
 
 Algerian security forces killed five Moslem rebels on Sunday night near Algiers and one person was wounded when a bomb exploded on Monday in a coffee shop in the northeastern town of Tizi-Ouzou, Algerian newspapers said. 
 The newspaper Liberte said the five rebels were killed at Sidi el Kebir, near the capital, and security forces seized weapons. 
 Le Matin said the coffee shop bomb was the second attack on a coffee shop in central Tizi-Ouzou, 90 km (55 miles) from Algiers. 
 A rash of bomb attacks against restaurants and coffee shops in Algiers and other towns in July killed more than 20 people, according to Algerian reports. 
 The government-appointed watchdog body, Human Rights National Observatory (ONDH), was quoted on Monday by el Watan newspaper as saying about 1,400 civilians have been killed in the past two years in bomb attacks, including booby-trapped cars, blamed on Moslem guerrillas. 
 An estimated 50,000 people, mostly Moslem militants and security forces members, have been killed in Algeria's violence since early 1992 when authorities cancelled a general election in which radical Islamists had taken a commanding lead. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 

 
 ITALY: Pirates rob Frenchwomen on yacht off Italy. 
 Pirates rob Frenchwomen on yacht off Italy. 
 SCILLA, Italy 1996-08-20 
 
 Pirates attacked a yacht moored off the southern toe of Italy and forced six Frenchwomen on board to hand over jewels and money, police said on Tuesday. 
 A police spokesman said the British-registered Renalo was boarded by a group of men, one armed with a pistol, who reached the yacht in a small motorboat just hours after it had anchored off the village of Scilla. 
 Around $2,600 worth of foreign currency was stolen along with the jewellery, the police said. The women and the Renalo's crew were not injured. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 


 FRANCE: Rouen grain loadings down in first-half August. 
 Rouen grain loadings down in first-half August. 
 PARIS 1996-08-20 

 Rouen grain loadings in the first half of the month were about a third below the average daily rate for August last year, port officials said on Tuesday. 
 The northern French port loaded 153,390 tonnes of grain for export between August 1 and 14, compared with 491,000 tonnes during the whole of August 1995, they said. 
 Wheat made up all the total except 1,555 tonnes, which was barley for Italy. 
 No grain ships are due in port in the next few days, the officials said. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 


 SWEDEN: Atlas Copco says stronger crown hit H1. 
 Atlas Copco says stronger crown hit H1. 
 STOCKHOLM 1996-08-20 
 
 Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco said on Tuesday that the stronger crown had a nine percent negative hit on its earnings in the first half of 1996. 
 But, reporting a 12 percent rise in first-half profit after financial items, the company forecast earnings for the full year would still be higher than in 1995 even though demand was expected to remain unchanged.   
 "Demand for the full year 1996 is expected to remain unchanged compared to 1995 levels, and earnings are expected to improve," the company said in a statement. 
 "Market conditions are, however, still uncertain," it added. 
 Atlas reported a 12 percent lift in profit after financial items to 1.57 billion crowns. 
 This profit included a gain of 342 million crowns related to the sale of VOAC Hydraulics and restructuring costs of 225 million crowns within the indsturial technology business area. 
 Sales for the half year rose six percent from a year ago to 12.37 billion crowns and orders received increased three percent to 12.98 billion crowns. 
 "The strengthening of the Swedish crown had, however, a negative effect of nine percent," the company said. 
 -- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1045 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996


 
 AUSTRIA: OMV 96 forecast based on weak polyolefins. 
 OMV 96 forecast based on weak polyolefins. 
 VIENNA 1996-08-20 
 
 Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV AG said on Tuesday its forecast for flat full-year earnings was based on a conservative outlook for polyolefins in the fourth quarter. 
 Finance director Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer told a news conference that polyolefin prices in the first half were already well below year-ago levels, squeezing refining and plastics margins. 
 He forecast worse was to come in the fourth quarter. 
 "We expect to match our 1995 result, allowing for a significant deterioration in polyolefins in the fourth quarter," Ruttenstorfer said. 
 "If the downturn does not happen there will be room to improve our full-year result," he added. 
 In 1995, OMV posted a record pre-tax profit of 2.09 billion schillings and earnings before interest and tax of 2.19 billion. 
 Ruttenstorfer estimated polyolefin revenues were down by about one billion schillings in the first half of 1996. 
 "We have undertaken a range of measures to compensate...cutting costs and increasing sales volume by 23 percent," he said. -- Janet McBride, Vienna Newsroom 43-1-531 12 254 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 

 
 GERMANY: German cocoa buyers take back seat in summer lull. 
 German cocoa buyers take back seat in summer lull. 
 HAMBURG 1996-08-20 

 German chocolate manufacturers have shunned cocoa markets during August after taking cover at around the 1,000 stg a tonne levels seen in London futures last month, traders said. 
 "Futures are trending higher and a strong sterling versus the mark is another deterrent," one said. 
 "The past few weeks have been the dullest in years." 
 London September was up six stg at 1,020 at 1030 GMT. 
 Industry was reasonably covered and not worried about price rallies while high summer temperatures discouraged chocolate consumption and some plants remained shut, traders said. 
 Market speculation focused on an Ivory Coast harvest around 800,000-900,000 tonnes, which could bring a deficit of around 150,000-250,000 tonnes in the 1996/97 season. 
 "That's why I think the current consumer attitude might be dangerous given that fourth quarter prices may well be a few hundred sterling higher," another trader said. 
 "But it would be a creeping increase and there is also a danger of a price collapse if the Ivory Coast suddenly comes up with record volumes and qualities," he said. 
 Ivorian beans were quoted at 2.30 marks per kg for Aug/Sept compared with 2.17 marks in late July while the fourth quarter 1996 and first quarter 1997 price of 2.33 was up 0.09-0.11. 
 The cocoa butter ratio was marginally higher at 2.78 for 1996 dates, implying a 6.50 marks outright price for Aug/Sept and 6.45 for fourth quarter, liquid, ex-works. 
 The first quarter 1997 ratio of 2.72 implied a mark price of 6.40. 
 -- Vera Eckert, Hamburg newsroom +49-40-41903275 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 


 
 
 SPAIN: Spain had 282.1 bln pta July budget surplus. 
 Spain had 282.1 bln pta July budget surplus. 
 MADRID 1996-08-20 
 
 The Economy Ministry gave the following figures in billions of pesetas: 
  BUDGET OPERATIONS	   JULY 96	JUNE 96     JULY 95 
  Revenues		     1,851.5	 1,203.5     1,789.7 
  Expenditure		  1,569.4	 1,584.1     1,559.3 
  Deficit/surplus		282.1	  -380.6	 230.4 
  Def/surplus to date     -1,184.0	-1,466.1    -1,456.7 
  GBR yr to date	     1,866.7	 1,560.8     2,445.1 
 NOTE - The figures relate to central government finances only. 
 GBR = government borrowing requirement. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 

 
 ITALY: Italy antitrust gives go-ahead to Marconi deal. 
 Italy antitrust gives go-ahead to Marconi deal. 
 ROME 1996-08-20 
 
 The Italian antitrust watchdog on Tuesday gave the green light to state company Finmeccanica to press ahead with plans to sell its Alenia unit's 50 percent stake in Mac-Alenia Marconi Communications. 
 Finmeccanica said in June it planned to sell the stake for 247 billion lire to its equal partner in the joint venture, Marconi SpA -- a unit of U.K. group GEC, 
 Mac-Alenia Marconi specialises in civilian and military radiocommunications and telematics. 
 The anti-trust said in its weekly statement that the deal would not substantially alter the sector concerned. 
 -- Rome newsroom +396 6782501 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 





 FINLAND: Finnish T-bill auction raises 593 mln markka. 
 Finnish T-bill auction raises 593 mln markka. 
 HELSINKI 1996-08-20 
 
 Result of the State Treasury Office's T-Bills auction on Tuesday compared to the August 13 auction: 
 				This auction	Previous auction 
 				176-day T-bills   183-day T-bills 
  Av. yield, pct	   3.69 pct	    3.72 pct 
  Highest accepted	 3.69 pct	    3.72 pct 
  Lowest accepted	  3.69 pct	    3.72 pct 
  Amount, FIM million	  343		   610 
  Bids, million mk	     348		   1,888 
  Maturing date	    Feb 14, 1997	Feb 14, 1997 
 				This auction	Previous auction 
 				266-day T-bills   273-day T-bills 
  Av. yield, pct	   3.81 pct	    3.87 pct 
  Highest accepted	 3.81 pct	    3.87 pct 
  Lowest accepted	  3.81 pct	    3.87 pct 
  Amount, FIM million	  100		   450 
  Bids, FIM million	    100		   528 
  Maturing date	    May 15, 1997	May 15, 1997 
 				This auction	Previous auction 
 				358-day T-bills   365-day T-bills 
  Av. yield, pct	   3.98 pct	    4.02 pct 
  Highest accepted	 3.98 pct	    4.02 pct 
  Lowest accepted	  3.98 pct	    4.01 pct 
  Amount, million mk	   150		   1,000 
  Bids, million mk	     351		   2,410 
  Maturing date	    August 15, 1997   August 15, 1997 
 Total planned issue amount was 1.5 billion markka. After today's auction, the outstanding amount of treasury bills is 45,042 million markka, the STO said. 
 -- Helsinki newsroom +358 - 0 - 680 50 245 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



 AUSTRALIA: Budget hopes boost Australian stocks at open. 
 Budget hopes boost Australian stocks at open. 
 SYDNEY 1996-08-20 
 
 The Australian share market continued its climb at the opening on Tuesday with buying interest fuelled by expectations of a tight Federal budget from Treasurer Peter Costello later today. 
 The All Ordinaries index rose 13.2 points to 2,274.7, while September share index futures rose 11 points to 2,287, a 12.3 point premium to the underlying index. 
 The buoyancy of Monday afternoon had spilled over, with solid buying interest pushing the bourse to its highest level in nearly four months, brokers said. 
 "What people want from the budget is still pushing it. They expect Costello to be firm," said a Sydney broker. 
 With opening volume levels well up on recent starting levels, buyers had clearly jumped down from the fence they had occupied for the last week. 
 "Buyers from yesterday are still about and they have given it a bit of a go," the broker said. 
 The big banks remained in favour as did cylical stocks such as transport shares Brambles and Mayne Nickless. 
 Rises outnumbered falls by a ratio of about 14 to four, while about 41 percent of shares traded remained steady. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 


 
 SWEDEN: Atlas Copco posts H1 profit 1.57 bln skr. 
 Atlas Copco posts H1 profit 1.57 bln skr. 
 STOCKHOLM 1996-08-20 
 
 Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year earlier. 
 					(million crowns unless stated) 
  Profit after fin items		 1,567  vs  1,395 
  Pct of invoiced sales		   12.7  vs   11.9 
  Invoiced sales			  12,374  vs 11,687 
  New orders				12,982  vs 12,622 
  Operating profit after deprec	1,491  vs  1,294 
  Pct of invoiced sales		   12.0  vs   11.1 
  Operating costs			 10,500  vs 10,062 
  Depreciation				 383  vs    331 
  Interest net				  68  vs     77 
  Dividends received			   7  vs	1 
  Foreign exchange difference   CREDIT   1  vs     20  CHARGE 
  Taxes					  531  vs    491 
  Minorities				    13  vs     15 
  Net profit				 1,023  vs    889 
  Earnings per shr (crowns)	     5.57  vs   4.84 
 NOTE -- Atlas Copco AB is a Swedish engineering group that makes compressors and industrial tools, 
 A Reuters poll of 13 analysts found the average forecast for Atlas Copco's half year profit after financial items was 1.52 billion crowns. The company's sales were forecast at 12.50 billion crowns. 
 -- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 


 
 FRANCE: FIRS maintains 1996/97 French beet yield estimate. 
 FIRS maintains 1996/97 French beet yield estimate. 
 PARIS 1996-08-20 

 French sugar intervention board FIRS said on Tuesday it held its 1996/97 beet sugar yield estimate of 9.40 tonnes per hectare, from 9.87 in 1995/96 following results of the second beet test by manufacturers. 
 "The test shows a slight improvement but it confirms the 1996/97 campaign will not be exceptional. It would be premature at this stage to change our estimate and we will wait for the results of the third test before eventually adjusting the figures," a FIRS analyst told Reuters. 
 Sugar manufacturers' association SNFS said on Monday the test carried out on August 12 showed sugar weight per hectare fell by 10.2 percent to 6.210 tonnes from 6.916 in last year's second test. 
 This represented a decline of 15 percent from the five-year average of 7.340 tonnes. 
 The number of beets per hectare fell to 101,500 from 109,600 but sugar content rose to 17.48 percent from 16.33 percent. 
 "The second test shows that drought stress is persisting and that a higher sugar content is not making up for a lower number of beets per hectare and a lower root weight," the analyst said. 
 She said the test figures were the lowest when compared to yearly averages since 1991 and five-year averages for 1981-85, 1986-90 and 1991-95. 
 In June FIRS predicted the sugar crop would drop to 3.9 million tonnes from 4.2 million in 1995/96, assuming a decline in area of 9,000 hectares to 420,000 ha. 
 Analyst have said the second test showed no significant crop improvement because the survey was conducted just as badly- needed rainfall hit the growing areas. The third test to be carried out on August 26 should reflect the rain's positive effect, they said. --Dominique Vidalon, Paris newsroom +331 4221 5432 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 




 SWITZERLAND: Swiss 3-month money market claims yield 2.104 pct. 
 Swiss 3-month money market claims yield 2.104 pct. 
 ZURICH 1996-08-20 
 
 The annual yield on the latest issue of Swiss federal government three-month money market claims is 2.104 percent, down from the previous issue's 2.132 percent, the Swiss National Bank said on Tuesday. 
 The latest issue, to be paid for on August 22, raised 1,022.15 million Swiss francs and was priced at 99.471 percent. 
 The previous issue, paid for on August 15, raised 775.10 million and was priced at 99.464 percent. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 


 
 
 SWITZERLAND: India confirms nuclear test ban veto. 
 India confirms nuclear test ban veto. 
 Philippe Naughton 
 GENEVA 1996-08-20 
 
 India told the Conference on Disarmament on Tuesday that it could still not accept a draft nuclear text ban treaty, preventing its formal adoption in Geneva after more than two years of negotiations. 
 At a meeting called to examine the final report on negotiations for a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), Indian ambassador Arundhati Ghose was fiercely critical of a text that she said was unbalanced and violated India's sovereignty. 
 She confirmed that India, which blocked the treaty last week, would veto its transmission to the U.N. General Assembly in New York for signature at the end of next month. 
 "Our opposition to that text continues," Ghose told the conference. "We would not, therefore, agree to it being forwarded to the UNGA in any form by this conference." 
 Her remarks were greeted with anger by India's neighbour and long-time foe Pakistan. "Today, the mask of the smiling Buddha has been torn off, revealing the face of the goddess of war," Pakistani ambassador Munir Akram told the conference. 
 "Pakistan would regret any procedure that would circumvent the Conference on Disarmament, the single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum," he added. 
 Yet supporters of the treaty, which include all five declared nuclear powers, hope to bypass India's veto in Geneva and have the treaty signed anyway at the General Assembly. 
 The Conference on Disarmament, or CD, takes all decisions by consensus of its 61 member states. But if the treaty text were presented to the General Assembly in the form of a co-sponsored resolution, it would need only a simple majority of the 185 member states to be adopted -- although opponents of the treaty could also propose amendments to it. 
 It was not clear whether Ghose's remark that the treaty could not be forwarded to New York "in any form" meant the CD would not be able even to transmit the negotiating report to the General Assembly. 
 That report clearly says there is no consensus on the text, but Western diplomats said that since it refers to the text it would be procedurally easier to introduce the treaty in New York if the report was forwarded. 
 If not, a co-sponsored resolution could be more difficult to introduce if the treaty were still to be open for signature from the end of September. 
 India's main problem with the treaty is that it does not commit the five declared nuclear powers -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France -- to a timetable for full nuclear disarmament, and instead encourages the divide between nuclear "haves" and "have nots". 
 After rejecting the treaty on those grounds, New Delhi was further angered when the draft text demanded that India was among those that signed up to the treaty before it could enter into force. 
 India, along with Pakistan and Israel, is one of three "nuclear threshold states" that have the capability to swiftly build nuclear weapons. New Delhi exploded a nuclear device in 1974, but has not undertaken any nuclear tests since then. 
 Ghose told the CD that New Delhi had led the call for a test ban treaty as far back as 1954, but the Geneva negotiations had ignored their mandate to negotiate a universal, balanced test ban. 
 She was particularly critical of the text's clause on entry-into-force, saying: "It is unprecedented in multilateral negotiations and international law that any sovereign country should be denied its right of voluntary consent on adherence to an international treaty." 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



 
 FRANCE: PRESS DIGEST - France - Le Monde Aug 20. 
 PRESS DIGEST - France - Le Monde Aug 20. 
 PARIS 1996-08-20 
 
 These are leading stories in Tuesday's afternoon daily Le Monde, dated Aug 21. 
 
 -- Left-wing parties unite behind appeal to President Jacques Chirac to negotiate with Africans on hunger strike in Paris church to renew or obtain work and residence papers. 
 BUSINESS PAGES 
 -- Sharp upturn in airline orders surprises planners at Boeing and Aerospatiale. 
 -- Air France Europe passenger miles rose three percent and revenue per passenger fell two percent in Q2. 
 CULTURAL PAGES 
 -- Nobel prize winning author Isaac Bashevis Singer says the rational mindset that governs us is becoming more and more unreasonable and is now out of control: the challenge is not to change the world but to keep it from falling to pieces. 
 -- Paris Newsroom +33 1 42 21 53 81 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 