 

 
 SPAIN: Spain's Petronor refinery shut until Monday. 
 Spain's Petronor refinery shut until Monday. 
 MADRID 1996-08-20 
 
 Petronor, part of the Repsol group, said its refinery in Spain's Basque Country had closed on Monday as expected. 
 Workers called a strike, the sixth this year, from 1500 GMT Monday until 0400 GMT on Monday, August 26. 
 The plant takes about 12 hours to regain full production after a stoppage, the spokesman said. It should therefore  be back to full strength around 1600 GMT next Monday. 
 The refinery has a capacity of 230,000 barrels per day (bpd) but usually refines an average of 200,000 bpd. 
 It will compensate for some of the lost production -- perhaps around half -- by increasing output after the strike, the spokesman said. 
 Other refineries in the Repsol group have also contributed to covering Petronor's shortfall in past strikes. 
 -- Madrid newsroom +34 1 585 2151 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 GERMANY: Bonn sets auction to top up Series 119 Bobl issue. 
 Bonn sets auction to top up Series 119 Bobl issue. 
 FRANKFURT 1996-08-20 
 
 The German government will top up the issue of five percent, Series 119, five-year government bonds, or Bobls, in an auction on Wednesday and has invited banks to place bids by 0900 GMT on Wednesday, the Bundesbank as issuing agent said on Tuesday. 
 Tap issuance of the Series 119 to non-banks will cease at 1000 GMT Tuesday, the Bundesbank said. The government will start tap issuance of a new Bobl series, Series 120, to non-banks Tuesday. 
 The auction tranche of the Series 119 will be bourse-listed on Monday, August 26. Pay date is Friday, August 23. 
 The Bobl Series 119 last yielded 5.01 percent. The new Series 120 has an issue price of 99.80 and yields 5.50 percent, the Bundesbank said. 
 --Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 

 DENMARK: Danish Realkredit six-month 1996 profit falls. 
 Danish Realkredit six-month 1996 profit falls. 
 COPENHAGEN 1996-08-20 
 
 Six months to June 30, 1996 
 					  (million crowns unless stated) 
  Group pre-tax result	     646.9  vs 1,035 
  Group net result		   584.4  vs 1,032 
  Securities and forex results     -81  vs   307 
  Losses and bad debt provisions  -105  vs   305 
 Balance end-June 1996  336.5 billion vs 325.5 bln end-June 1995 
 NOTE - Full name of Denmark's second biggest mortgage credit firm is Realkredit Danmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a full year 1996 pre-tax profit of around 1.3 billion crowns. --Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



 
 BELGIUM: Fourth suspect in Belgian scandal appears in court. 
 Fourth suspect in Belgian scandal appears in court. 
 NEUFCHATEAU, Belgium 1996-08-20 
 
 A Belgian court will decide later on Tuesday whether to formally charge a fourth suspect in a Belgian child sex scandal in which two eight-year old girls have died and at least four others were abducted. 
 "The decision will be this afternoon," said Clement de Clety, lawyer of Brussels businessman Jean-Michel Nihoul who has been detained and faces charges of criminal association. 
 About the charge, de Clety told reporters that the only point was that Nihoul knew Lelievre and Dutroux. 
 "(Nihoul) just gave (them) his car for two or three days to repair it and to pass it on to the technical control authorities. These are the only concrete points in the file, nothing more," de Clety said. 
 Convicted paedophile Marc Dutroux and associate Michel Lelievre were formally charged last Friday after police rescued two abducted young girls from a house owned by Dutroux in the southern town of Charleroi. 
 Dutroux led police on Saturday to the buried bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo who died of starvation early this year after being kidnapped in June 1995. 
 Dutroux's wife Michelle Martin was charged on Monday with being an accomplice in the abduction and illegal imprisonment of children. 
 Belgian media said earlier on Tuesday that the Dutch boyfriend of Nihoul's ex-wife had also been arrested. But court sources said the charges against him had been dropped and that he had just been questioned. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 


 
 HONG KONG: Hong Kong stocks modestly higher in morning trade. 
 Hong Kong stocks modestly higher in morning trade. 
 HONG KONG 1996-08-20 
 
 Hong Kong stocks were modestly higher in Tuesday morning trade, with gains in the utility and property sectors aiding the general tone of the market, analysts said. 
 The Hang Seng index rose 24.09 points to 11,237.57. Turnover was HK$817 million after the first hour of trade. The Hang Seng properties sub-index added 17.26 points to 21,062.19 and the utilities sub-index rose 76.98 points to 9,547.78. 
 "There is still going to be buying in property counters ahead of their reuslts," said Kent Rossiter, institutional sales manager at Nikko Securities. "There is a lot of focus on Hutchison and Cheung Kong which are the most imminent." 
 Shares in Hutchison Whampoa rose HK$0.50 to HK$47.90 and Cheung Kong (Holdings) was steady at HK$56.25. Both companies are due to release their interim results on Thursday. 
 In the utilities sector, China Light rose HK$0.30 to HK$32.80 and Hong Kong Telecom was up HK$0.10 at HK$12.90. "The utilities had been left well behind by the market," said one trader. 
 However, analysts said gains in the market were likely to be capped ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting later on Tuesday. "As the market heads towards the 11,300 level we are still going to meet some resistance," said Rossiter. 
 "The market is likely to be quiet waiting for the FOMC meeting. If there is no change in interest rates, the market should be able to move higher," the trader said. 
 H-shares succumbed to profit-taking after three consecutive winning sessions. The index of Hong Kong-listed mainland China companies fell 12.18 points to 823.34. 
 Shares in Yaohan International Holdings rose HK$0.10 to HK$0.87 after the company said it plans to privatise its loss making unit Yaohan Hongkong Corp Ltd. Shares in Yaohan Hongkong fell HK$0.02 to HK$0.35. 
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure fell HK$0.05 to HK$12.55. The company reported net profit of HK$347.2 million for the first half of 1996. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 



 NEPAL: Nepal textile mills end strike against tax hike. 
 Nepal textile mills end strike against tax hike.
 KATHMANDU 1996-08-20 
 
 Nepal's textile mills, closed for three weeks in protest against an increase in sales tax, re-opened on Tuesday after the government agreed to review a tax proposal, a senior industry official said. 
 "We will open the factories as the government has agreed to consider some of our policy-related demands," Mahesh Lal Pradhan, president of Nepal Textile Industries' Association (NTIA), told Reuters. 
 More than 200 textile plants closed last month, throwing 20,000 people out of work, after the government raised the sales tax to 15 percent from five percent. The industry wants the government to restore the old rate. 
 Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, who is also Finance Minister, had assured the entrepreneurs that he would take care of the interest of factory owners, Pradhan said. 
 Factory owners said the sales tax hike had made Nepali products costlier than textiles imported from India or Tibet. Cheaper textiles were also smuggled in from India, they said. 
 Pradhan said the government had also agreed to make the valuation of imports realistic and take strong measures against smuggling. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 


 
 
 SINGAPORE: Singapore shares open up, busy day expected. 
 Singapore shares open up, busy day expected. 
 SINGAPORE 1996-08-20
 
 The Singapore share index opened down on Tuesday, but then climbed to sit slightly higher at mid morning after Wall Street's overnight gain. 
 Brokers said stocks in the news like Transmarco and Berger International led trading on a morning dominated by block deals. 
 The 30-share Straits Times Industrials Index was up 3.72 points at 2,109.38 at 0215 GMT. Market volume was 32.43 million shares with advancers ahead of decliners by 69 to 65. 
 Transmarco shares surged Singapore $0.45 to S$9.30 after slipping from a morning high of S$9.50. It saw block deals of 720,000 shares done between S$6.75 and S$8.00. 
 Some 1.54 million Transmarco shares were traded. 
 Berger International led actives with 5.87 million shares, with 1.87 million crossed at approximately S$1.47. Berger rose S$0.05 to S$1.59. 
 Jurong Engineering led the losers after announcing its interim net profit fell 26.7 percent. The share dropped 14 cents to S$3.60 on a volume of 141,000 shares. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996


 
 JAPAN: Tokyo stocks mixed in early morning trade. 
 Tokyo stocks mixed in early morning trade. 
 TOKYO 1996-08-20
 
 Tokyo stock prices were mixed in early morning trade on Tuesday, with the market's benchmark Nikkei average continuing on the rebound path it started on Monday. 
 Gains were likely to be limited, brokers said, as market activity was still fairly thin although the peak week for Japanese corporations' summer vacations was over. 
 At 0019 GMT, the 225-share Nikkei average was up 44.21 points or 0.21 percent at 21,150.62. In the futures market, however, the key September futures, were down 50 points at 21,120. 
 "The Nikkei will probably try for the 21,207 level, which is one-third of the way up from its (recent) lows, and after that it may eye the 21,400 to 21,500 level," one broker added. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 

 BANGLADESH: Traders resent move against used car imports. 
 Traders resent move against used car imports. 
 DHAKA 1996-08-20 
 
 Bangladeshi traders on Monday took issue with a government plan to restrict imports of used cars in its drive against pollution and said it could push up prices. 
 "It's absolutely wrong to put the blame on used imported cars. All re-conditioned Japanese vehicles... are sure to have anti-pollution devices as per Japan's export rule," said Abdul Haque, president of the Bangladesh Re-conditioned Vehicles Importers and Dealers Association. 
 The re-conditioned cars constitute nearly 90 percent of Bangladesh's total car imports. 
 Huque told a news conference the government served notice last month it was going to limit the age of used imported cars to three years, arguing the vehicles are polluting the environment. Currently, importers are allowed to bring in five-year- old used cars. 
 "We are importing the cars that have in-biult anti-pollution devices and are safe," Haque said. 
 He said the government also imposed Value Added Tax (VAT) at a rate of 15 percent on sales of the cars, effective July this year. 
 He warned that the price of re-conditioned cars in local markets might be "doubled or trippled" because of such moves. 
 Bangladesh reduced import duty on car imports to 45 percent from 50 percent in fiscal 1996/97 which began on July 1. The country imported nearly 30,000 re-conditioned cars, mostly from Japan, in 1995-96. 
 The government earned 3.0 billion taka ($71.4 million) as tax revenue from car imports last year. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996



 CHINA: China issues rules on shipping links with Taiwan. 
 China issues rules on shipping links with Taiwan. 
 BEIJING 1996-08-20 
 
 China has issued a set of regulations governing direct shipping links with Taiwan, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday. 
 The regulations take effect today, although Taiwan still bans direct shipping links between the two sides.   
 "The regulations...are meant to promote cargo and passenger transport between the two sides of the Straits and accelerate the development of direct mail service, trade, and air and shipping links across the Straits," Xinhua said. It gave no further details. 
 Hong Kong's Beijing-backed Wen Wei Po newspaper said on Tuesday that the southeastern Chinese cities of Xiamen and Fuzhou would be the first ports to be opened to direct shipping links with Taiwan. 
 The conditions were ripe for establishing direct shipping links between the two sides, the newspaper said. 
 An official of the Ministry of Communications declined to comment on the reports, saying only that China would make a statement through the official media in future. 
 Taiwan has banned direct air and shipping links with China since Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists lost the Chinese civil war and fled to the island in 1949. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 



MEXICO: Recovery excitement brings Mexican markets to life. 
 Recovery excitement brings Mexican markets to life. 
 Henry Tricks 
 MEXICO CITY 
 
 Emerging evidence that Mexico's economy was back on the recovery track sent Mexican markets into a buzz of excitement Tuesday, with stocks closing at record highs and interest rates at 19-month lows. 
 "Mexico has been trying to stage a recovery since the beginning of this year and it's always been getting ahead of itself in terms of fundamentals," said Matthew Hickman of Lehman Brothers in New York. 
 "Now we're at the point where the fundamentals are with us. The history is now falling out of view." 
 That history is one etched into the minds of all investors in Mexico: an economy in crisis since December 1994, a free-falling peso and stubbornly high interest rates. 
 This week, however, second-quarter gross domestic product was reported up 7.2 percent, much stronger than most analysts had expected. Interest rates on governent Treasury bills, or Cetes, in the secondary market fell on Tuesday to 23.90 percent, their lowest level since Jan. 25, 1995. 
 The stock market's main price index rallied 77.12 points, or 2.32 percent, to a record 3,401.79 points, with volume at a frenzied 159.89 million shares. 
 Confounding all expectations has been the strength of the peso, which ended higher in its longer-term contracts on Tuesday despite the secondary Cetes drop and expectations of lower benchmark rates in Tuesday's weekly auction. 
 With U.S. long-term interest rates expected to remain steady after the Federal Reserve refrained from raising short-term rates on Tuesday, the attraction of Mexico, analysts say, is that it offers robust returns for foreigners and growing confidence that they will not fall victim to a crumbling peso. 
 "The focus is back on Mexican fundamentals," said Lars Schonander, head of researcher at Santander in Mexico City. "You have a continuing decline in inflation, a stronger-than-expected GDP growth figure and the lack of any upward move in U.S. rates." 
 Other factors were also at play, said Felix Boni, head of research at James Capel in Mexico City, such as positive technicals and economic uncertainty in Argentina, which has put it and neighbouring Brazil's markets at risk. 
 "There's a movement out of South American markets into Mexico," he said. But Boni was also wary of what he said could be "a lot of hype." 
 The economic recovery was still export-led, and evidence was patchy that the domestic consumer was back with a vengeance. Also, corporate earnings need to grow strongly to justify the run-up in the stock market, he said. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Chrysler plans new investments in Latin America. 
 Chrysler plans new investments in Latin America. 
 David Lawder 
 AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 1996-08-20 
 
 Chrysler Corp. Tuesday announced $380 million in new investments for South America, including assembly plants for pickup trucks and diesel engines in Brazil and the expansion of a Jeep plant now being built in Argentina. 
 Chrysler, which is cautiously trying to rebuild its international presence, said the projects in Brazil were worth about $315 million, and the expansion in Argentina was worth about $65 million. 
 Roughly one third of the total investment, or about $126.6 million, will come from Chrysler's suppliers, who will play a major role in the automaker's low-risk global growth strategy, Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said. 
 "We don't intend to make risky investments just to be a major player in emerging markets," added Thomas Gale, Chrysler's executive vice president of international operations. "We're quite content to grow at a steady pace in regions where we see solid opportunities." 
 Eaton said the investments will boost Chrysler's sales in the Mercosur free-trade zone, which groups Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. 
 But the company's limited production capacity will allow it only to grab a small portion of the Mercosur market away from rivals General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG, he said. 
 "We are targeting very specific market segments," he said. "We don't have any interest or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application." 
 The new Brazilian plant, which will be Chrysler's third limited-production facility in South America, will assemble the automaker's all-new Dakota compact pickup truck for sale in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the countries in the Mercosur free-trade zone. 
 In Argentina, Chrysler said it will add production of about 6,000 Jeep Cherokees a year at a plant now under construction in the Cordoba province. The plant is already scheduled to build about 14,000 Jeep Grand Cherokees per year starting next April, and Cherokee output will begin in 1998. 
 A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll off the assembly line starting in mid-1998, Chrysler said. Production, however, will be modest, with 12,000 trucks in the first year and an ultimate capacity of 40,000 units annually. Employment will start at 400 people. 
 The trucks at first will be largely assembled from "complete knock-down" kits shipped from the United States, but the automaker intends to meet the Mercosur trade bloc's 60 percent local content requirement after three years. 
 Chrysler has not decided whether to market the Dakota under the Dodge brand name or under one of its other brands. The automaker now uses the only Jeep and Chrysler brand names outside the United States, Canada and Mexico. 
 The $315 million Brazil investment also includes a new diesel engine plant to be built by Detroit Diesel Corp.. 
 The $10 million facility will supply the company's Italian-designed VM Motori four-cylinder turbocharged diesel engines for use in the Brazilian Dakota as well as in Jeep models built in Argentina. Chrysler installs about 40,000 of the engines annually into minivans and Jeep Grand Cherokees sold in Europe. 
 Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler by opening plants in Latin America include Dana Corp., Johnson Controls Inc., Lear Corp., Lear Corp. United Technologies Corp. and PPG Industries Inc., Chrysler executives said. 
 Eaton said total annual vehicle sales in the four-country Mercosur region will increase from about 2 million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade. 
 "We think this is a major growth area," Eaton said. "It's politically and economically a stable region, we think with particularly rising consumer buying power." 
 Including a small plant in Venezuela that assembles Cherokees and Neon small cars from kits, the investments announced Tuesday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler and its suppliers have made in South America, the company said. 
 Chrysler stock rose 25 cents to close at $28.875 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: CompuServe reports loss, cutting work force. 
 CompuServe reports loss, cutting work force. 
 Susan Zimmerman 
 COLUMBUS, Ohio 1996-08-20 
 
 CompuServe Corp. Tuesday reported a surprisingly large $29.6 million fiscal first-quarter loss, blaming a decline in the number of subscribers to the No. 2 online service and spending on a new family-oriented service and improvements. 
 CompuServe predicted a second-quarter loss but said earnings would improve in the second half of the fiscal year. 
 "We are taking steps to revitalise CompuServe," said Chief Executive Bob Massey. 
 The company said it would cut 150 jobs, or 4 percent of its work force, as part of a cost-cutting programme expected to save $30 million on an annualized basis. 
 The Columbus, Ohio-based company said that as part of the cost cuts it would sell its Spry Inc. unit, whose Web browser trails far behind similar products made by Netscape Communications Corp. and Microsoft Corp. 
 The loss of $29.6 million, or 32 cents a share, in the company's fiscal 1997 first quarter ended July 31 compared with last year's quarterly profit of $26.8 million, or 36 cents a share. The results included a pretax charge of $17.7 million, or 13 cents per share. 
 CompuServe last month said it expected to post a loss for the quarter, but the actual loss was greater than Wall Street expectations. 
 The company reported revenues of $208.6 million for the quarter vs. $186.5 million in the previous year's quarter. 
 Massey, expanding on last month's comments, said the number of people cancelling their subscriptions exceeded the 900,000 new subscribers to the company's online services, producing a "modest decline" in subscriber numbers. 
 As of July 31, the company's flagship CompuServe Information Service had 3.3 million members worldwide, the company said. Total subscribers, including members of NiftyServe, a joint-venture Japanese online service, numbered 5.2 million. 
 CompuServe, founded in 1969, is second only to America Online Inc., with 6.2 million subscribers. 
 CompuServe also blamed the loss on investments in its family-oriented WOW! service and infrastructure improvements. 
 It said it expected losses to continue into the second fiscal quarter, hitting 10 cents to 15 cents a share, due to the costs of rolling out the latest version of the software needed to access the service, Compuserve 3.0, and the release of a feature that makes WOW! look different to teenagers than it does to their parents. 
 But the forecast for the second half of its fiscal year was rosier. 
 "Coupled with new product releases and aggressive marketing campaigns, we expect the third and fourth quarters to improve with subscribers topping the 7-million mark, including our Japanese licensee service, NiftyServe," Massey said in a statement. 
 The company said it also expected increased revenue from advertising and fees for electronic commerce. 
 CompuServe is a former subsidiary of tax preparer H&R Block Inc., which spun off the company and is selling its 80 percent stake in CompuServe. 
 CompuServe announced its financial results after markets closed. Its stock dropped 12.5 cents to $13.50 on Nasdaq in earlier trading. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 

 USA: Planet Hollywood launches credit card. 
 Planet Hollywood launches credit card. 
 LOS ANGELES 
 
 If dining at Planet Hollywood made you feel like a movie star, now you can spend money like Arnold Schwarzenegger with a new credit card from the themed restaurant chain. 
 The fast growing company, whose outlets are festooned with kitsch movie memorabilia, has teamed up with the William Morris talent agency and MBNA America Bank of Wilmington, Del., to offer a credit card with appropriate Hollywood perks. 
 These include preferential seating in the restaurants, a limited edition T-shirt and discounts on food and merchandise, a statement said. Planet Hollywood joins other pop culture companies such as Rolling Stone magazine that are issuing branded credit cards that make going into debt more fun than usual. 
 Approved applicants don't have to pay an annual fee, and there's a special introductory annual percentage rate of 5.9 percent for balance transfers and cash advance checks. Orlando, Florida-based Planet Hollywood is part of Planet Hollywood International Inc. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: Hog prices tumble as supplies increase, cocoa gains. 
 Hog prices tumble as supplies increase, cocoa gains. 
 CHICAGO 
 
 Hog prices fell Tuesday after government slaughter figures showed supplies were increasing, while cocoa futures rose on anticipation of smaller crops overseas. 
 Forecasts for shrinking deliverable supplies pulled coffee prices up. Crude oil fell after rising on Monday. Gold edged higher. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 futures contracts closed down 1.32 at 250.65 points. 
 At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, August hog and pork belly futures finished down their respective daily limits on pressure from increased hog slaughter and weakness in the cash market. 
 "The fact that we are seeing a few more hogs show up has people worried about the supply side but more important than this it gives the packers a little more freedom to improve their margins," said Doug Harper, Brock Associates Inc. senior livestock analyst. 
 High hog prices have pinched profits at meat-packing companies and now that hog supplies are increasing these companies will likely be quick to lower bids. 
 The Agriculture Department reported Tuesday's slaughter at 348,000 head vs. 343,000 a week ago. Also, on a weekly basis, slaughter is nearing last year's higher levels. 
 The CME August hog contract closed down the 1.50-cent-per-pound daily limit at 60.025 cents per pound. 
 Pork bellies also closed sharply lower because more hogs translates to more pork and lower pork prices. CME August pork bellies closed down the 2-cent limit at 91.375 cents per pound. 
 Cocoa futures at New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange ended sharply higher on speculative buying, but the market has been buoyed by news of smaller overseas crops. 
 One analyst said until updated Ivory Coast crop estimates emerged near the end of August, the December contract was likely to range between $1,400 and $1,500. 
 December cocoa settled up $21 to $1,430 per metric ton. 
 "The smaller Ivorian crop is well anticipated," the analyst said. "There are other countries having problems, such as ... Ghana." 
 Preliminary forecasts, which pegged the 1996/97 Ivory Coast crop around 800,000 to 900,000 metric tons, have been largely factored into the market, he said, and barring sharp revisions, news from other cocoa producing countries could become the focus. 
 Coffee prices ended higher after a burst of late-session chart-based buying. 
 December coffee settled at 115.05 cents per pound Tuesday, up 1.75 on the day and just above the widely-watched 115 cents mark. Traders said the break through that resistance level could inspire some additional chart-driven buying Wednesday. 
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil and refined products futures closed lower on profit-taking. 
 September unleaded gasoline closed down 1.26 cents a gallon to 64.01 cents, and September heating fell 0.91 cent a gallon to 61.67 cents. 
 September crude oil fell 40 cents to $22.86 a barrel. 
 September gold added 50 cents to close at $388.60 an ounce at New York's Commodity Exchange. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Blue chips end up as Fed keeps interest rates steady. 
 Blue chips end up as Fed keeps interest rates steady. 
 NEW YORK 

 Blue-chip stocks rallied Tuesday after the Federal Reserve held interest rates steady, the dollar rose after a drop in the June trade deficit, and bonds ended little changed. 
 Crude oil fell after rising on Monday. Gold edged higher. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.82 points at 5,721.26, putting the blue-chip index within a stone's throw of its record closing high of 5,778.00 set on May 22. 
 In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,230 to 1,068 on moderate volume of 334 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee ended its meeting in early afternoon and kept interest rates unchanged, allowing Wall Street to hurdle any lingering fears of a surprise increase. 
 "It was as expected. If we can neutralise the interest rate factor here, prices can go higher," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker. 
 The Fed had been expected to hold interest rates steady amid signs the economy was slowing after strong second quarter growth without inflation heating up. 
 But investors still preferred to hold back until the policy-makers announced that they were keeping short term rates unchanged. 
 The independent Fed also sought to stay out of the line of political fire in the approach to the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections. 
 After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled. 
 Blue-chips actually pared their gains shortly after the Fed news. 
 "For a few seconds it looked like the buy the rumour, sell the fact. But then the Dow came back up and it's hard to find any indices doing anything spectacular," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 
 "It's a Dow-inspired rally and in some ways because of the liquidity factor, visibility and safety," he added. 
 Meanwhile, weakness in high-technology stocks pressured the technology-studded Nasdaq composite index, which closed down 6.24 points at 1,124.67. 
 In currency markets, the dollar climbed above 108 yen after the Commerce Department reported the United States trade gap shrank 23 percent in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum fell sharply. 
 While the trade shortfall with Japan rose 3.6 percent in June, the second-quarter deficit of $10.5 billion with Japan was the smallest quarterly deficit in five years. 
 The trend boosted the dollar since it decreased the amount of dollars foreign exporters will need to sell for their local currencies. 
 "It was a good trade number," said Greg Pearman, chief foreign exchange dealer at Credit Commerciale de France in New York. "There was definitely one huge buyer today who right after the (trade) number bought a lot of dollars for yen." 
 Late in New York, the dollar settled at 108.35 yen, up from 107.80 yen late on Monday. The dollar rose slightly to 1.4883 German marks from 1.4880 marks. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the 30-year Treasury ended unchanged at 6.80 percent. 
 Crude oil for September delivery lost 40 cents to $22.86 a barrel at the New York Mercantile Exchange. September gold added 50 cents to close at $388.60 an ounce at New York's Commodity Exchange. 
 Overseas, Britain's FTSE 100 climbed 19.5 points to a record 3,883.2, surpassing the old mark of 3,872.9 set just last week. Japan's 225-share Nikkei average rose 20.60 points to 21,127.01. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: Sprint to offer consumer Internet access service. 
 Sprint to offer consumer Internet access service. 
 Susan Nadeau 
 CHICAGO 
 
 Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T and MCI. 
 Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall. 
 After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said. 
 "We've been in the Internet, in fact profitable and making money in the Internet business, longer than anybody," said Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet Access Services for Sprint. 
 Industry analysts said Sprint took its time getting into the consumer side of the Internet access business to avoid some of the service glitches that have hurt its larger rivals. 
 "Some others got not very good press," said Bette Massick Colombo at Bear Stearns & Co. "The fact that they are taking their time is okay. I don't think they've lost ground." 
 Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the global computer network with a local phone call in 212 cities to start, and in more than 300 cities by year-end. 
 The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. as well as regional Bell operating companies earlier this year. 
 AT&T's entry into the market, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business. 
 Sprint's service initially will support only the Netscape Navigator search software, but Dodd said the company was taking with Microsoft about including its Explorer "browser" software as well. 
 "In our first release we won't support the Microsoft browser, but we expect them to be a part of our service shortly," Dodd said. 
 In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services. 
 Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers. 
 It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number. 
 Credit card billing will be offered. 
 Sprint stock fell 50 cents to $39 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Back-to-school spending is up. 
 Back-to-school spending is up. 
 Patricia Commins 
 CHICAGO 
 
 Shoppers are loading up this year on perennial back-to-school favourites such as jeans, shirts and sneakers, with parents spending an average of 12 percent more for clothing and other supplies. 
 "It's sort of funny because it really hasn't changed a lot from years ago, with jeans, shirts and pants and things like that being the basics of what people are looking for," said Andrea Kent, director of the Retail Marketing Group for American Express Travel Related Services Inc. 
 Overall, back-to-school spending will rise a projected 12 percent to an average of $363 per child, American Express said in its second annual survey of 1,000 shoppers. 
 The spending increase was caused by an emphasis on brand-name goods that typically cost more, lower retailer inventories which reduce the amount of discounted, sale merchandise, and higher consumer confidence, American Express said. 
 It added that 18 percent of parents say they planned to spend $500 or more per child on back-to-school items such as clothing, supplies, textbooks and electronics. 
 Across the board, clothing accounts for the highest portion of the back-to-school budget. The percentage is highest for elementary students, at 66 percent of the budget, and high school students, at 63 percent. For college students, clothing accounts for 33 percent of the budget, followed closely behind by textbooks at 25 percent. 
 "College students have a much greater demand for other items... Textbooks is a very high expense for college students, accounting for 25 percent of their back-to-school budget," Kent said. 
 Curiously, the American Express survey found that college boys are dramatically more style-conscious than college girls, a finding that was contrary to last year's results. 
 Among the retailers, department stores are battling speciality shops for back-to-school sales, with discount department stores getting a large portion of the sales. 
 Back-to-school -- the second largest selling season for retailers -- has taken on even more importance since the all-important holiday season between Thanksgiving and Christmas is five days shorter this year. 
 "The department stores are back with a bang... They are fighting for the purse, hearts and minds of the mall-brats, and they are flexing their fashion muscles," said Alan Millstein, president of Fashion Network Inc., a New York-based retail consultant. 
 The American Express survey showed discount department stores are capturing 35 percent of sales, followed by malls at 29 percent and department stores at 26 percent. Other retail locations, such as factory outlets and office supply stores, accounted for 10 percent. 
 The decision of where to shop is mostly left up to parents, the survey revealed, while the children had the most influence over what to buy. 
 "If you let your kids pick out what ... to buy, they are more likely to want to wear it," Kent said. "Back when I was a kid, my mom took me shopping and she picked out what she liked for me." 
 What kids are picking out are jeans, with the Levi Strauss & Co.'s Levi brand being the most popular, Kent added. 
 Jeans are also an important draw for department stores trying to lure high school and college students, with offerings that include designer jeans from Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren Polo and Calvin Klein. 
 Millstein added that low-slung, hip-hugging jeans with bell bottoms are big sellers. 
 "Anything that has a ... retro look of the peace march is back in fashion and selling," Millstein said. 
 Among the hot-selling items at Target, the discount department store chain owned by Dayton Hudson Corp., are T-shirts and accessories, such as clay rings and necklaces, that are reminiscent of the 1970s, according to Dayton Hudson spokeswoman Susan Eich. 
 Other popular items include jumper's for girls, backpacks, clogs and "anything with zippers," Eich added. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Kansas, Arizona add to suits against tobacco firms. 
 Kansas, Arizona add to suits against tobacco firms. 
 Greg Frost 
 KANSAS CITY, Mo. 1996-08-20 
 
 Kansas and Arizona filed lawsuits against some of the biggest tobacco firms Tuesday, joining a growing list of states seeking to recover hundreds of millions of dollars for the costs of treating smoking-related illnesses. 
 At the same time, sources said that Michigan and Oklahoma were preparing to file similar lawsuits this week, bringing to 14 the total number of states suing the industry. 
 Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall called tobacco "the most lethal consumer product ever sold" and said her state's lawsuit was warranted because of the "enormous financial burden" that the tobacco industry had shifted to Kansas taxpayers. 
 Philip Morris Cos. Inc., one of nine tobacco companies named in the suit, said it would vigorously defend itself against the suit, which it said had no basis in law. 
 Meanwhile, aides to Michigan Attorney General Frank Kelley said he would file a suit against tobacco companies on Wednesday while legal sources said Oklahoma would file suit Thursday. 
 In Indianapolis, meanwhile, another liability challenge to the tobacco industry headed toward a decision. 
 A jury was expected to begin deliberations Wednesday or Thursday in the case of Richard Rogers, an Indianapolis lawyer who began smoking at age 6 and died of lung cancer 46 years later. Rogers' widow and teen-age children are seeking unspecified damages. 
 Also on Tuesday, New York City's public advocate urged Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to sue the tobacco industry to recover what the city paid out for health care costs of smokers. 
 Public Advocate Mark Green said the city should join the group of states and the city of San Francisco in their efforts to obtain Medicaid refunds from cigarette companies. 
 The Rogers case in Indianapolis is similar to hundreds that have been filed across the country. Earlier this month in Jacksonville, Fla., a jury awarded $750,000 to a man who smoked for 44 years before he was stricken with lung cancer. 
 In that case the jury said the Lucky Strikes he smoked were a defective product and that cigarette maker Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., a unit of Britain's B.A.T. Industries Plc, was negligent by failing to inform the public about the health risks of smoking. 
 The company said it will appeal the jury decision. 
 The Kansas lawsuit only listed damages in excess of $50,000, but Stovall said the actual figure would probably run to hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 "During the course of discovery we'll be able to come up with a finite amount of money that we're claiming in terms of damages, but it's hundreds of millions of dollars ... for what the state has paid out in Medicaid," Stovall said. 
 Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods said his state was seeking more than $300 million in damages related to costs Arizona incurred in Medicaid costs for smokers' illnesses. 
 Stovall said the Kansas lawsuit suit was the broadest to date because it sought to force tobacco firms to pay for programs aimed at educating children about the hazards of smoking. 
 Named as defendants in the Kansas suit were RJR Nabisco Holding Corp.'s RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co.; B.A.T. and its divisions Brown & Williamson and The American Tobacco Co.; Philip Morris Co., Loews Corp.'s Lorillard Tobacco Co. Inc.; the public relations firm Hill and Knowlton, the Council for Tobacco Research, and the Tobacco Institute. 
 The Arizona suit also named Brooke Group Ltd.'s Liggett Group Inc. as a defendant. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Chains may raise prices after minimum wage hike. 
 Chains may raise prices after minimum wage hike. 
 Patricia Commins 
 CHICAGO 
 
 The higher minimum wage signed into law Tuesday will be welcome relief for millions of workers, but it may also translate into higher prices for hamburgers, pizzas and other fast-food items, some restaurant chains said. 
 The 90-cent-an-hour increase will have little short-term impact on many fast-food chains that already pay workers rates above the federally mandated minimum. 
 But in the long run, industry officials fear that workers already earning above the new minimum wage, which will rise to $5.15 an hour next year, will be looking for more. 
 "What we're concerned about is the ripple effect it brings," said Bruce Cotton, chief spokesman for Long John Silver's Restaurants Inc. in Lexington, Ky. 
 "Our average crew wage is about $5.20 (an hour) so short-term there is not going to be any impact," said Denny Lynch, spokesman for Wendy's International Inc., which operates about 4,300 restaurants in the United States. 
 President Clinton signed into law the first increase in the minimum wage in five years, boosting it by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and 40 cents more to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997. 
 The White House estimates the new law will mean a raise for about 10 million American workers, many of them in restaurants and stores. 
 Most small businesses had opposed the increase, saying it would prompt them to hire fewer people, particularly young people looking for entry-level jobs. 
 But some economists argued that the negative effects of an increase in the wage, first imposed by the federal government in 1938 at 25 cents an hour, would be minimal. 
 To help get the bill through the Republican-controlled Congress, a package of about $22 billion in tax breaks aimed mostly at small businesses was added to the measure. 
 As a result of the higher minimum wage, American Restaurant Partners L.P., which operates 62 Pizza Hut restaurant franchises, expects its total wage costs will rise $500,000 over the next 12 months. 
 "If you raise someone who started in the last two months (to the new minimum wage level), you also have to raise everybody else," said Terry Freund, chief financial officer of American Restaurant Partners. 
 To compensate, the Wichita, Kan.-based restaurant operator hopes to raise prices by about 3 percent. The risk, Freund added, is that higher prices will keep some customers away or prompt them to scale back on the pizzas or other items they normally order. 
 Beyond the minimum wage requirements, competition for workers -- from cooks to delivery drivers to counter staff -- has forced many fast-food chains to pay up to hire good help, particularly in metropolitan markets. That competition is being driven by an increase in restaurant openings, particularly fast-food and casual dining establishments. 
 "There are neighbourhoods where we have to pay $6.00 an hour to $6.50 or $7.00 to get" good workers, Wendy's Lynch said. "The competition is setting the wage." 
 Fast-food industry executives said there has been competition for workers since the late 1980s, although the increase in restaurant openings is making the search for employees more intense. 
 Another problem for fast-food chains is wage competition from other employers. A fast-food worker, for example, may be able to earn $50 or $60 a night in tips at a casual dining establishment, executives said. 
 "For QSRs (quick service restaurants) ... it's even tougher to keep the kids," said Roger Lipton, president of Lipton Financial Services. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: Blue chips end up as Fed keeps interest rates steady. 
 Blue chips end up as Fed keeps interest rates steady. 
 Betty Wong 
 NEW YORK 
 
 Blue-chip stocks bounded higher Tuesday as the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates unchanged removed a possible roadblock to the market's continued rally. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.82 points at 5,721.26, putting the blue-chip index within a stone's throw of its record closing high of 5,778.00 set on May 22. 
 In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,230 to 1,068 on moderate volume of 334 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee ended its meeting in early afternoon and kept interest rates unchanged, allowing Wall Street to hurdle any lingering fears of a surprise increase. 
 "It was as expected. If we can neutralise the interest rate factor here, prices can go higher," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker. 
 The Fed had been expected to hold interest rates steady amid signs the economy was slowing after strong second quarter growth without inflation heating up. 
 But investors still preferred to hold back until the policy makers announced that they were keeping short term rates unchanged. 
 The independent Fed also sought to stay out of the line of political fire in the approach to the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections. 
 After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled. 
 Blue-chips actually pared their gains shortly after the Fed news. 
 "For a few seconds it looked like the buy the rumour, sell the fact. But then the Dow came back up and it's hard to find any indices doing anything spectacular," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 
 "It's a Dow-inspired rally and in some ways because of the liquidity factor, visibility and safety," he added. 
 Meanwhile, weakness in high-technology stocks pressured the tech-studded Nasdaq Composite index, which closed down 6.24 points at 1,124.67. 
 Tobacco stocks were mostly higher, despite news that Kansas became the 11th state and Arizona the 12th to sue the tobacco industry to recover Medicaid costs of smokers. Philip Morris rose 1-5/8 to 91-1/2, RJR Nabisco slipped 1/4 to 26-1/2, smokeless tobacco maker UST rose 1/8 to 31-3/4, Loews added 1/4 to 77-7/8. 
 HBO & Co., a maker of software for the medical industry, slumped 5-1/4 to 56-1/2 after a brokerage house downgraded its opinion of the company's performance. 
 Griffin Gaming soared 7-1/8 to 19-3/8 on news of its merger with Sun International Hotels. Sun International fell 3-5/8 to 48-1/8. 
 Tylan General rose 2-7/8 to 13-1/8. The company said it is putting itself up for sale and added that it has already received some inquiries from potential buyers. 
 First Data fell 3-1/2 to 77-3/8. Morgan Stanley trimmed its 1996 and 1997 earnings estimates for the firm. 
 Among technology issues, Cisco Systems lost 1 to 55, 3Com lost 1-15/16 to 43 and Intel was off 1-1/4 to 79-1/2. 
 The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks fell 0.89 to 665.69. The American Stock Exchange index rose 1.69 to 559.29. 
 The NYSE Composite index of all listed common stocks fell 0.03 to 356.61. The average share was unchanged. 
 The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of NYSE, American and Nasdaq issues -- was 6,504.569 down 7.949 or 0.12 percent. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: U.S. Federal Reserve holds interest rates steady. 
 U.S. Federal Reserve holds interest rates steady. 
 WASHINGTON 1996-08-20 
 
 By Rich Miller, Economics Correspondent 
 The Federal Reserve held interest rates steady Tuesday amid signs the economy was slowing from its burst of growth in the second quarter without inflation heating up. 
 The decision by the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee had been widely expected and left the key federal funds rate that commercial banks charge each other for short-term loans unchanged at 5.25 percent. 
 "The Federal Open Market Committee meeting ended at 12:45 p.m (1645 GMT). There is no further announcement," central bank spokesman Joseph Coyne said in a brief statement. 
 Stock prices rose after the Fed announcement, with the Dow Jones industrial average adding 21.82 points to 5,721.26. While the decision had been expected, analysts said investors were relieved nonetheless. Bond prices ended little changed. 
 The decision to hold rates steady kept the Fed out of the line of political fire ahead of the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections. 
 "If the Fed had raised interest rates now, given the rather benign inflation data we've seen, there would have been a political lynch mob at the central bank," said Ken Mayland, chief economist for St. Louis-based banking group KeyCorp. 
 After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy appears to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled. 
 Most analysts expect the economy to slow further later this year. But it remains an open question whether it will slow enough to keep inflation in check. 
 That means a precautionary rate rise is possible later in the year, once the Fed has more evidence to help it measure how much the expansion is slowing, economists said. 
 More than half of 29 economists surveyed by Reuters Tuesday week forecast a rate increase by the end of the year. 
 The Fed holds its next policy-making meeting on Sept. 24. Since cutting rates by a quarter point in January, the central bank has held rates steady as growth first waned, then waxed. 
 David Jones, vice chairman of Wall Street broker Aubrey G. Lanston and Co., said the Fed will face a tougher task next month, in part because of a potential pickup in inflation. 
 But he too is betting that the central bank will not raise rates until later in the year. "Fed officials would probably like to push out any decision beyond the election," he said. 
 Tuesday's Fed meeting was sandwiched between the Republican Party's presidential nominating convention last week in San Diego and the Democrats' next week in Chicago. 
 A rate rise ahead of the election would not be good news for President Clinton in his drive to win re-election, although it would likely have little immediate impact on the economy that still has considerable momentum. 
 The economy grew at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter -- about twice the speed most economists reckon is sustainable on a long-term basis without fanning inflation. 
 The jobs market has remained strong, putting extra money in workers' pockets and portending continued solid consumer spending. 
 At 5.4 percent, the unemployment rate is hovering just above a six-year low and near levels that in the past have forced employers to bid up wages to attract workers, feeding inflation. 
 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told lawmakers last month that wage increases had been held in check by workers' worries that they might lose their jobs. But he warned that those fears would eventually fade and said the central bank needed to remain vigilant to prevent a wage-driven rise in inflation. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: Lloyd's CEO questioned in recovery suit in U.S.. 
 Lloyd's CEO questioned in recovery suit in U.S.. 
 Lorrie Grant 
 RICHMOND, Va. 1996-08-20 
 
 Ronald Sandler, chief executive of Lloyd's of London, on Tuesday underwent a second day of court interrogation about the 300-year-old insurance market's multibillion-dollar recovery plan, which he defended as critical to Lloyd's solvency. 
 Sandler was questioned for four hours in a federal courtroom by lawyers for American investors in Lloyd's and by U.S. District Judge Robert Payne about Lloyd's complex restructuring plan to settle large losses. 
 Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide -- quaintly known as Names -- were anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case, in which 100 U.S. investors have applied for an injunction to block the recovery plan. 
 Under the rescue proposal, Lloyd's was to reinsure billions of dollars in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis-related claims in the United States, in a new company called Equitas. 
 The proposal also includes a 3.2 billion pound ($4.95 billion) cash offer to the Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas. The investors must vote on the plan by Aug. 28. 
 The suit, which names 93 plaintiffs, seeks to block the plan until more detailed financial information is released. It contends that Lloyd's has breached U.S. disclosure laws. 
 Sandler, as he did on Monday, said the plan was crucial to Lloyd's solvency. 
 Payne questioned Sandler for about an hour, asking about Lloyd's plans to pay its liabilities and what would happen if its investments made more money than was needed to pay off those liabilities. 
 "Most (Lloyd's officials) believe that some time over 30 years the liability will be extinguished," Sandler said, adding that any money left over would go to charities. 
 When asked by the judge who the benefactors would be, Sandler said he was not able to answer. 
 Payne told Sandler firmly that the company needed to have a plan for the disposition of leftover assets and that he would need to be told who the benefactors would be. 
 Payne also asked whether Lloyd's was able to pay the total premium if U.S. investors did not back the recovery plan. Sandler again said he was unable to answer. 
 The proceedings resumed in the afternoon after a break for lunch. 
 Payne earlier criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws. 
 The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling. 
 Separately Tuesday morning, Lloyd's received a boost from another court case in New York, which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names. 
 They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names. 
 "We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under U.K. law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. executive, Peter Lane. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: Most active stocks in Nasdaq trading. 
 Most active stocks in Nasdaq trading. 
 NEW YORK 
 
 The following were the most active issues in Nasdaq trading Tuesday 
   Cisco Systems     5,807,600	 55	   off    1 
   Iomega Corp	 5,699,900	 13 7/8     off    1 5/16 
   Viking Office     5,500,000	 24 1/8     up     1 
   Hbo & Co	    5,375,300	 56 1/2     off    5 1/4 
   Lm Erics Tel	4,314,900	 22 3/4     up     7/16 
   Ascend Comm	 4,246,300	 43 1/2     off    1 
   Oracle Corp	 4,177,400	 39	   off    5/8 
   Intel Corp	  4,167,200	 79 1/2     off    1 1/4 
   Three Com Cp	3,705,000	 43	   off   1 15/16 
   Tele Comm Inc A   3,559,000	 15 7/8     up     1/8. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: NYSE closing averages. 
 NYSE closing averages. 
 NEW YORK 
 
 Prices on the New York Stock Exchange closed mostly higher in moderate trading Tuesday. 
 The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 21.82 to 5721.26. 
 The NYSE composite fell 0.03 to 356.61. 
 The average price per share was unchanged. 
 Gainers beat losers 1230 to 1068. 
 Volume was 334,948,330, compared with 293,930,290 Monday. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 
 USA: Ohio Blue Cross approves $299.5 mln Columbia/HCA deal. 
 Ohio Blue Cross approves $299.5 mln Columbia/HCA deal. 
 CLEVELAND 
 
 Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.'s proposed $299.5 million acquisition of most of Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Ohio cleared a hurdle Tuesday when the health insurer's policyholders approved the deal at a special meeting, Blue Cross said. 
 About 60 protestors outside the meeting outnumbered the 38 who attended it. Most proxies were mailed in advance of the meeting, a Blue Cross spokesman said. 
 Protestors, carrying signs reading, "Stop the Merger," said they represented retirees, trade union members and others. Blue Cross is currently a not-for-profit entity. 
 Blue Cross and Columbia have said the acquisition will reduce health care costs and improve care. 
 "This could be a role model for the entire country," Blue Cross Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Burry said at the meeting. "This an opportunity to get doctors, hospitals and insurers to work together for the benefit of the patient." 
 Questions about the deal have been raised by consumer activists, some policyholders, the Ohio attorney general, the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and others. 
 Last week, Ohio Congressman Sherrod Brown said he asked the Federal Trade Commission to review the proposal. 
 Brown said he was concerned that the merger could reduce competition and restrain trade. He said he was also concerned that all Blue Cross patients might be treated at hospitals owned by Columbia. 
 Columbia is the largest U.S. hospital chain, with 349 hospitals, including three in northeast Ohio, Blue Cross's coverage area. Columbia revenues last year were $17.7 billion. 
 The health insurer has 64,000 policyholders, insures 1.5 million people and generates $2 billion in annual premiums. 
 Under the joint venture agreement, Columbia will form a new company to acquire most of the insurer's operating businesses. 
 Blue Cross will continue to operate, providing reinsurance, guaranteeing policies written by the new company and retaining most national accounts. A federal employee programme will be retained by Blue Cross but managed by the new company, Columbia and Blue Cross said. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: War hero Colin Powell hits road with Dole campaign. 
 War hero Colin Powell hits road with Dole campaign. 
 Joanne Kenen 
 LOUISVILLE, Ky 1996-08-20 
 
 Gulf War hero Colin Powell lent his prestige and popularity to the Republican presidential ticket on Tuesday, making a surprise appearance alongside Bob Dole and Jack Kemp as they campaigned among U.S. war veterans for a strong national defence. 
 The Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Kentucky was a natural setting for Powell, a retired general who helped lead U.S. troops to victory in Operation Desert Storm in the Gulf, and for Bob Dole, who nearly died in the Second World War. 
 "One of the great lessons of history is that if America is prepared to fight many wars and greater wars and any wars that come, then we will fight fewer wars and lesser wars and perhaps no wars at all," said Dole. 
 Dole accused the Clinton administration of spending too little on modernising U.S. forces and meeting the needs of U.S. troops. He said nearly 17,000 junior enlisted personnel needed food stamps to make ends meet last year. 
 "That should not happen if you wear the American uniform," Dole said in a speech that outlined his career-long commitment to veterans. 
 Powell, apparently trying to keep the spotlight on the Republican candidate and not on rumours that he may be secretary of state in a Dole administration, said he and Dole "haven't had any discussion" about a cabinet post and the priority now was to "get the team elected." 
 With his well-received speech at the Republican convention in San Diego last week, the retired general and best-selling author helped the party project an image of tolerance and inclusion. Republicans hope Powell, a moderate on social issues, can reel in the independents Dole needs if he is to oust President Bill Clinton from the White House on Nov. 5. 
 Powell had to remind well-wishers who had come out to greet Dole at the Louisville airport, "I'm not running for anything." Introducing Dole at the VFW rally, he praised him as a champion of a strong defence who "proudly wears a purple heart" for his war wounds and "now offers himself for service as the leader of this great nation." 
 "His vision includes providing leadership to the world in a way that will reassure and comfort our friends and put our enemies on clear notice that we have the strength and the will to defend ourselves and to defend our interests," he added. 
 Before heading back to Washington, Dole, Kemp and Powell, who were not accompanied by their wives on Tuesday, paid a brief visit to the Ladies Auxiliary meeting at a nearby auditorium where the women had been unable to see or hear the main event. 
 "They've never come to the ladies before, this is a first, first, first," said a delighted Marion Watson, from Louisville, chuckling as the former Kansas senator told the crowd, "You'll get a tax cut whether you want one or not." 
 Opinion polls show that the harmonious Republican convention and the energy Kemp infused into the campaign helped Dole cut into Clinton's lead, although Clinton, who at 50 is 23 years younger than Dole, still was ahead and the latest polls showed the gap widening again, to 12 points. 
 Dole and his running mate Kemp have made the economy the centrepiece of their joint campaign, pledging to cut income taxes by 15 percent and balance the federal budget without harming veterans or the elderly. But they have given scant details of how they plan to do that. 
 "It's simply a matter of presidential will. If you've got it, you can do it, and I've got it and I will do it,"  said Dole, who in his 35 years in Congress took part in many budget struggles. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Clinton signs law raising minimum wage to $5.15. 
 Clinton signs law raising minimum wage to $5.15. 
 Arshad Mohammed 
 WASHINGTON 1996-08-20 
 
 President Bill Clinton gave millions of Americans a raise on Tuesday, signing into law a bill to increase the minimum wage for the first time in five years, by 90 cents an hour to $5.15 over two years. 
 "For many this bill will make the difference between their ability to keep their families together and their failure to do so," Clinton said as he signed the bill surrounded by workers who earn the minimum wage and their children. 
 "It's about time they got a reward and today they'll get it," the president added. 
 The bill boosts the wage typically paid to unskilled workers in restaurants and stores by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and by 40 cents to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997. It sugarcoats the pill for the mostly small businesses that will pay the higher labour costs by handing them $22 billion in tax breaks over 10 years, paying for this in part by reimposing a 10 percent tax on airline tickets. 
 The passage of the minimum wage boost is a victory for Clinton, who called for the measure when he ran for president in 1992, and his fellow Democrats who forced the legislation through Congress over the objections of many Republicans. 
 "This is a truly remarkable piece of legislation. It is pro-work, pro-business and pro-family," Clinton said in the elaborate signing ceremony on the White House south lawn. 
 "This is a cause for celebration for all Americans of all parties, of all walks of life, all faiths," he added. "We have made this a real season of achievement for America." 
 But there were no leaders of the Republican-led Congress that passed the minimum wage legislation on hand as Clinton signed the bill into law. 
 In a ceremony with great fanfare including music played by the U.S. Marine band, Clinton walked to the podium through two parallel columns of American flags with the White House perfectly framed behind him. 
 After signing the bill with minimum wage workers and their children posed around him, he carried a small girl in a pink dress in his arms as he walked through the crowd greeting people. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 
 
 USA: Kansas files lawsuit against tobacco companies. 
 Kansas files lawsuit against tobacco companies. 
 TOPEKA, Kan. 1996-08-20 
 
 Kansas and Arizona filed lawsuits Tuesday against major tobacco companies to recover Medicaid costs for smoking-related illnesses, joining a growing list of states and cities taking on Big Tobacco in court. 
 Kansas became the 11th state and Arizona the 12th to join the anti-tobacco litigation. 
 Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall told a news conference her state's lawsuit was the broadest filed to date. 
 Stovall said that, in addition to trying to recover Medicaid costs, she would seek to require companies to stop marketing products to children, to disclose their knowledge of nicotine addiction, to publish corrective advertising and to fund a public education campaign on smoking. 
 Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods said his state was seeking more than $300 million in damages related to Medicaid costs Arizona has incurred in providing health care to indigent residents with alleged tobacco-related illnesses. 
 Woods said the tobacco companies have engaged in a "massive illegal conspiracy" representing that smoking is not addictive. 
 Arizona's lawsuit also alleged the companies violated antitrust, consumer fraud and fair trade practices. 
 In addition to the monetary damages, Arizona's lawsuit also asks the court to prohibit the companies from targeting children in their advertising, promotion and sales. 
 Woods alleged that tobacco products kill an estimated 5,000 Arizona residents a year. 
 Among the defendants in the two lawsuits were RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co., Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., Philip Morris Cos. Inc., Lorillard Tobacco Co. Inc., American Tobacco Co., public relations firm Hill and Knowlton Inc., the Council for Tobacco Research, and the Tobacco Institute. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 UK: Oil prices slip as refiners shop for bargains. 
 Oil prices slip as refiners shop for bargains. 
 LONDON 1996-08-20 
 
 World oil prices slipped on Tuesday in a market where refiners stung by high crude premiums and poor margins began to bargain for a cheaper barrel. 
 October futures for world benchmark Brent Blend crude from the North Sea closed down 38 cents at $20.43 a barrel after failing to break through the day's high of $20.80. 
 "There was a broad feeling in the market that Brent was overheated and had to come down," a trader said. 
 On the unofficial Brent forward market, prompt differentials for Dated or physical Brent shrank, suggesting cargoes would fetch lower premiums in the weeks ahead. This could avert the risk of refineries running less crude through their systems to pump up the price of products. 
 The market was also waiting for direction from U.S. stocks data due out later on Tuesday which is forecast to show a 1.3 million barrel build in heating oil and diesel stocks in the run-up to the winter season, when gasoline gives way to heating oil as the guiding light for crude prices. 
 Low inventory builds in the United States were largely supportive of the North Sea and West African markets with 5.0 million barrels of distillate-rich North Sea grades heading trans-Atlantic in the last week alone. 
 Crude oil prices in dollars per barrel: 
 						    Aug 20	 Aug 19 
 						    (close)	(close) 
     Dated Brent				 $21.35	 $21.73 
     IPE London Brent futures (Oct)	$20.43	 $20.85 
     NYMEX light crude futures (Sept)    $22.80	 $23.26 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 
 
 USA: Fed decides to keep interest rates steady. 
 Fed decides to keep interest rates steady. 
 WASHINGTON 1996-08-20 
 
 By Rich Miller, Economics Correspondent 
 The (U.S.) Federal Reserve opted on Tuesday to hold interest rates steady amid signs that the economy is cooling off without inflation heating up. 
 The decision by the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee had been widely expected and left the key federal funds rate that commercial banks charge each other for overnight money unchanged at 5.25 percent. 
 "The Federal Open Market Committee meeting ended at 12:45 p.m (1645 GMT). There is no further announcement," central bank spokesman Joseph Coyne said in a brief statement. 
 The decision to hold rates steady keeps the independent Fed out of the line of political fire in the approach to the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections. 
 After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled. 
 "It's no surprise that the Federal Reserve felt justified sitting on its hands, since there have been so many mixed signals in the economy," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at Boston-based John Hancock Financial Services. 
 Most analysts expect the economy to lose more momentum as the second half continues. But it remains an open question whether it will slow enough to keep inflation in check. 
 That means a precautionary rate rise is possible later in the year, once the Fed has more evidence to help it measure how much the expansion is slowing, economists said. 
 More than half of 30 economists surveyed by Reuters last week forecast a rate increase by the end of the year. 
 "Fed officials would prefer not to act in the last month or two before the election if they can help it," Hancock's Cheney said. But he added that he believed the next rate move could just as well be down as up. 
 Tuesday's FOMC meeting was sandwiched between the Republican Party's presidential nominating convention last week in San Diego and the Democrats' next week in Chicago. 
 A rate rise ahead of the election would not be good news for President Clinton in his drive to win a second term, although it would likely have little immediate impact on an economy that still has considerable forward momentum. 
 The economy grew at a 4.2 percent annualized pace in the second quarter -- about twice the speed most economists reckon is sustainable on a long-term basis without fanning inflation. 
 The jobs market has remained buoyant, putting extra money in workers' pockets and portending continued solid consumer spending. 
 The Fed holds its next policy-making FOMC meeting on Sept. 24. Since cutting rates by one quarter of a percentage point in January, the central bank has held monetary policy steady. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 

 USA: Japan, EU may aid U.S. in ag trade reform. 
 Japan, EU may aid U.S. in ag trade reform. 
 TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. 
 
 The United States may seek an informal alliance with Japan and the European Union to win world trade rules to assure fair play by state trading enterprises, an Agriculture Department official said Tuesday. 
 A new round of world trade talks was scheduled to begin in 1999. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said earlier this summer that U.S. priorities would be elimination of unfair export subsidies and controls on so-called STEs. 
 Richard Schroeter, deputy administrator of international trade policy for the Agriculture Department, said there could be grounds for Japan and the EU to assist the U.S. drive. 
 "If we look at export subsidies, can the United States and the EU afford to eliminate or further reduce their subsidies while certain practices of other countries, which can be equivalent to export subsidies are allowed to continue?" Schroeter said at the International Sweetener Symposium. 
 "I speak here, for example, of state trading enterprises, or some producer-financed operations. My view is that there should be equivalent disciplines to avoid disadvantaging our producers." 
 So far, Japan, the EU and the United States have met market access commitments under world trade rules, he said. 
 If other nations wish to see further market-opening steps, Schroeter said, "they're going to have to take part on this issue" of state trading enterprises. 
 The U.S. view is that STEs, which often have monopoly control over imports or exports, can obstruct trade or engage in unfair sales practices. U.S. officials frequently cite the Canadian Wheat Board and Australian dairy exports in their complaints about state trading enterprises. 
 In the previous trade round, Japan's import quotas and EU farm subsidies were major U.S. targets. 
 
 (c) Reuters Limited 1996 