By choosing Paul Wolfowitz for the post of World Bank president right after he nominated John Bolton US ambassador to the United Nations, President George W. Bush has signaled his determination to send his administration's hardliners to the forefront of the international arena.

"Coming on the heels of the appointment of John Bolton to be ambassador to the United Nations, this is now another mystifying choice by the Bush administration for an important role in the community of nations," commented US Senator John Kerry, who unsuccessfully ran against Bush during the November presidential elections.

Both Wolfowitz, 61, and Bolton, 56, earned the reputation of "hawks" during President Bush's first term in office.

The former became known as the architect of the war in Iraq while the latter defended an uncompromising US position of issues like the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea.

Soon after his reelection in November, Bush expressed a desire to close the gap between the United States and allies that opposed the Iraq war.

Condoleezza Rice, former White House national security advisor now appointed by Bush to lead the State Department, said in January that "the time for diplomacy is now," and the president's trip to Europe in February seemed to confirm the new atmosphere of rapprochement.

However, the successive nominations of Bolton and Wolfowitz may contradict somewhat this spirit of reconciliation.

"It makes you wonder whether all the administrations words about mending fences with our allies are just lip service," Kerry pointed out.

Initial international reaction to Wolfowitz's selection as the candidate for the presidency of the World Bank has been luke-warm. France gave a somewhat cool reaction to the news, while British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw paid credit to the US president's choice.

Numerous anti-globalization groups and humanitarian organizations, though, expressed their indignation.

The job of World Bank president is traditionally filled by Americans, while Europeans usually select the managing director of the International Monetary Fund.

Wolfowitz, though, will still have to win approval of the World Bank's board of governors, which comprises representatives of its 184 member-states.

Despite his assurances, Wolfowitz does not come off as a specialist on poverty and international development issues.

His favorite subject is democratization in the Middle East as a means of combating terrorism and stabilizing the region.

But during a press conference Wednesday, the president stressed Wolfowitz's experience as US ambassador to Indonesia.

"His term as ambassador to Indonesia taught him a lot about development," said Peter Timmer, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, who served with Wolfowitz in Jakarta. "My personal sense is he got the idea of what a liberal Muslim society would look like by working in Indonesia."

For his part, Bolton who will defend the US administration's foreign policy at the United Nations, has at times in the past been tough on the world body. "There is no such thing as the United Nations," he stated in 1994.


Now, he takes on the UN portfolio as the United Nations that refused to endorse the US war in Iraq may find itself again in the spotlight because of the Iranian nuclear controversy.

Bush said Wednesday that the United States and its European allies would seek UN Security Council action against Iran if Tehran rejected incentives to limit its nuclear programs.

"The understanding is, we go to the Security Council if they reject the offer. And I hope they don't. I hope they realize the world is clear about making sure that they don't end up with a nuclear weapon," the US president said.


