Iran May Consider Uranium Enrichment Moratorium - Ambassador.
Interfax (Moscow).
1 February 2005.
Gholamreza Shafei, Tehran's ambassador to Moscow, announces Iranian readiness to sign the pending nuclear fuel agreement with Russia later this month. Mr. Shafei also confirms that Iran is "considering a moratorium, which means a temporary suspension, and not a full stoppage of uranium enrichment;" also that Iran is prepared to allow the IAEA to inspect, saying "if the agency's experts tell us two hours in advance they wish to visit this or that nuclear facility, they will have the permission." Referring to the United States, Shafei stresses that Iran does "not wish to get into conflict with anyone, [but] we will strongly defend our national interests.".

Iranian Atomic Energy Chief to Arrive in Moscow.
Interfax (Moscow).
28 July 1999.
After a meeting with Iranian Minister of Mines and Metals Eshaq Jahangiri, Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Nikolai Aksyonenko tells journalists that Gholam Reza Aqazadeh, the chairman of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, would visit Moscow in August or September. Sources in the Russian government have reported that Aqazadeh will visit Russia to discuss cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Aksyonenko also tells journalists that Russian Prime Minister Igor Ivanov is planning to visit Tehran. Aksyonenko said, "we are ready to sign an intergovernmental agreement on scientific and technical cooperation.".

A Reformer Without Results; Iran's Khatami Needs to Hand Over Terrorists.
Iran Expert.
2 November 2001.
Hadi Najad-Hosseinian, Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, on a visit to Washington, DC, says Iran would not abandon its nuclear weapons program. The Washington Times reports US intelligence services believe Iran has undoubtedly spent between $12-15 billion to acquire nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction.

Iranian Spokesman Denies Differences With Russia on Bushehr Nuclear Plant.
ITAR-TASS (Moscow).
1 February 2004.
Hamidreza Asefi, spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry, announces that Iran and Russia have no serious differences as concerns cooperation in the nuclear sphere. Talks during Russian Atomic Energy Minister Rumyantsev's upcoming visit to Tehran will focus mainly on " repatriating to Russia spent nuclear fuel originating in that country.".


Hans Blix, Secretary-General of the International ....
IRNA (Tehran).
2 October 1997.
Hans Blix, Secretary-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, assures Gholam Reza Aqazadeh, head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, that cooperation between the Agency and Iran will continue. He says, "I have always announced that no violation had been seen while conducting inspections in the Islamic Republic of Iran." Aqazadeh says Iran hopes to produce 20% of its power from nuclear power, an ambition he hopes will be aided by potential agreements with China and Russia.


Hans Blix, the director general of the Internation....
FBIS.
6 March 1996.
Hans Blix, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), pays a secret visit to Israel for " professional consultations." A senior IAEA team is soon to go to Iran to investigate suspicions of Iranian centrifugal uranium enrichment plant.


Moscow Says It Has Agreed With the West on Supplying  Iran's Nuclear Fuel: Musavian.
Tehran Times (Tehran).
22 February 2005.
Hossein Musavian, chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, announces an agreement has been reached with Russia to provide nuclear fuel for Iran's nuclear program. Musavian further says the United States and Europe did not have any "problems" with this cooperation.

Iran: Majles Official Urges IAEA to Thwart propaganda against Nuclear Programs.
IRNA (Tehran).
15 May 2002.
Husayn Afarideh, head of the Iranian Majlis Energy Commission, calls upon the International Atomic Energy Agency to prevent propaganda against Iran's peaceful nuclear programs. In a meeting with Werner Burkart, IAEA deputy director, Afarideh points out the IAEA positive reports about Iran and the peaceful nature of the Iranian nuclear program. Afarideh invites Burkart and IAEA high officials to visit nuclear facilities in Iran, including Bushehr.

Husayn Afarideh, head of the Iranian Majlis Energy....
Iran Expert.
27 May 2002.
Husayn Afarideh, head of the Iranian Majlis Energy Commission, says that the International Atomic Energy Agency has planned 70 visits to the Bushehr nuclear power plant during the next year. He adds that the construction of the plant is going well and that about 1,000 Russian experts are at the site.


IAEA Found No Suspicious Hardware in Iran.
RIA (Moscow).
2 March 2005.
IAEA deputy director General Pierre Goldschmidt announces that results from the inspection of five Iranian nuclear sites in early January found no "suspicious equipment.".

Director General Comments on  Iran Report.
IAEA.
25 February 2004.
IAEA Director General ElBaradei circulates his report on the agency's nuclear verification in Iran. He praises Iran's cooperation with regard to site access especially, but expresses dismay at the dearth of "prompt information." He describes the P- 2 centrifuge discovery as a "setback" and expresses the hope that it would be Iran's last oversight with regard to program disclosure. ElBaradei also suggests that a "comprehensive" suspension of centrifuge manufacturing and assembly would be a good confidence-building measure.

IAEA Head Mohamed ElBaradei sets expectations as a....
Source : .
30 September 2003.
IAEA Head Mohamed ElBaradei sets expectations as a team of senior IAEA inspectors prepare for their visit to Iran on 2 November. ElBaradei reassures that the 31 October deadline is " decisive and non-negotiable.".

IAEA spokeswoman Melissa Fleming states that the I....
FBIS.
28 May 2003.
IAEA spokeswoman Melissa Fleming states that the IAEA has conducted several inspections in Iran since Mohamed El Baradei's last visit to Iran in February. Ms. Fleming also reveals that various swipe samples have been gathered by the inspectors and are currently being analyzed by the agency.

UN Nuclear Chief Says  Iranian Cooperation Crucial to Unravel Atomic Program.
AFP.
17 March 2004.
IAEO head Rohani, speaking in Tokyo, states that Iran would accept nuclear verification teams into the country again after March 27th. IAEA head ElBaradei declared confidence that progress in the Iran case would be made, and that the "ball is clearly in Iran's court" in any attempt to absolve it of possible military intentions attached to its nuclear technology and research.

gor Ivanov, the Russian foreign minister, says th....
Russia Rejects US Pressure To Halt Iranian Cooperation.
Middle East Newsline (London).
28 November 1999.
Igor Ivanov, the Russian foreign minister, says that the construction of the nuclear power plant in Bushehr concerns only Russia and Iran. No other country has any influence on the construction process, he says. He discards fears that Russia might yield to US pressure to suspend the construction of the nuclear power plant. The Iranian vice-parliamentary speaker says that Iran has made its relations with Russia a "priority" and that progress on Bushehr demonstrates that both countries have rejected US pressure. Russian Power Minister Yevgeniy Adamov says that construction on Bushehr is "developing dramatically" and that it is "gradually entering a timetable which was largely directive but which is more and more becoming an actual timetable of meeting out obligations.".

Iran gives nuclear pledge.
BBC.
22 February 2003.
In a meeting in Tehran between President Khatami and IAEA Chief Mohamed El Baradei, Iran agreed to provide the IAEA preliminary information about any plans to build new nuclear facilities. The two leaders met after El Baradei visited a plant that is being built in Natanz. President Khatami says Iran would further cooperate with the IAEA to avoid any "misunderstandings," and states " we hope the Iranian efforts, which are legal and fair, will not become a victim of the discriminatory policies of certain countries. Dr. El Baradei stressed that if Iran signed the additional protocol, the country would dispel doubts about its nuclear ambitions. Iran has refused the additional protocol which would allow the IAEA to conduct snap inspections and give the agency freer access to nuclear sites with little prior warningâbut agreed to hold more talks on the issue.

Moscow Bridles Against Accusations.
Rossiyskaya Gazeta (Moscow).
14 September 1995.
In a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev in Moscow, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin criticizes the sale of Russian reactors to Iran. In response, Kozyrev explains that the "peaceful" Russian-Iranian agreement complies with Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) requirements, and pointed out that, unlike Israel, Iran has signed the NPT. Consequently, Russian-Iranian cooperation poses no threat to Israeli security. "We have reliable information that Iran is not planning to make nuclear weapons," a Russian Atomic Energy Ministry senior official says in an interview with Interfax. After meeting with Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, Rabin says if the United States could not convince Russia to drop the deal with Iran, Israel had very little chance to do so. Israel is ready to make economic concessions if Russia cancels its nuclear contract with Iran, but Russian officials rejected this possibility.

4 May Russian TV Commentary.
Moscow Russian Public Television First Channel Network.
4 May 1995.
A Russian official denies reports that Russia has agreed to sell Iran a uranium-enriching gas centrifuge facility. " No contracts or agreements on this question have been signed," says Georgiy Kaurov, head of the information directorate of the Russian Ministry for Atomic Energy. "And you can have discussions on any subject, and in this instance these are just empty words." Another Russian nuclear official says Russia is discussing with Iran the training of Iranian nuclear physicists, but no agreement has been signed. "Most of the Iranian nuclear physicists have undergone training in the West," explains Lev Ryabev, Russia's first deputy minister for atomic energy. "It would be natural if they learned to operate Russian-made equipment which will be installed in Bushehr. Ryabev says Russia has started no construction yet at the unfinished nuclear power plant: "We have not laid a single brick in Bushehr yet.".


Clinton To Order A Trade Embargo Against Teheran.
Todd S. Purdum.
The New York Times.
30 April 1995.
In an address to the World Jewish Congress, US President Bill Clinton announces that he will ban all US trade with Iran, including purchases of Iranian oil by US firms, which last year accounted for over 20% of Iran's oil exports and totaled almost $4 billion. Also banned will be $326 million of direct US exports to Iran. The executive order is to take effect in the first week of June. Clinton also said he would press US allies to impose similar sanctions. In his speech, Clinton cites Iranian agreements with Russia to buy nuclear reactors and gas centrifuge equipment as proof that Iran is seeking to acquire nuclear weapons. The embargo is reportedly a demonstration of US determination to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, and is imposed on the basis that Iran is a terrorist state and is seeking weapons of mass destruction.

In an effort to convince Russia to end its nuclear....
Lexis-Nexis.
28 March 1995.
In an effort to convince Russia to end its nuclear cooperation with Iran, the United States temporarily ends plans to sign an agreement with Russia on the peaceful use of nuclear power. Hazel O'Leary, the US Energy Secretary, believes the threat from Iran is serious, stating Washington is resolute in its desire for Russia to end its assistance to Iran. But Washington's action has not provided the desired response, and Russia continues to deal with Iran, adhering to a $1 billion contract with Iran to complete a nuclear reactor in Bushehr within four years, with stipulations for a further three in the future.

Iranian TV Interviews Rowhani on US Threats, Nuclear Issue, Security.
Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1 (Tehran).
7 February 2005.
In an Iranian television interview, Hassan Rowhani, secretary-general of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, declares that Iran will decide by mid-March whether to continue negotiations with the European Union. He says Iran has repeatedly told Europe it would be willing to hold nuclear talks for months, not years, as long as they are fruitful. The secretary asserts Iran will be able to produce yellow cake within the next few months, and referred specifically to activities at the Isfahan UCF and Arak Heavy Water plants. He stresses the importance of Iranian solidarity in the face of U.S. threats, reiterating that the IAEA has repeatedly declared there is no proof of Iran pursuing a nuclear weapons production program and declaring there is "no place for nuclear weapons" in Iran's defense doctrine. Rowhani dismisses the possibility of a U.S. military attack given Iran's cooperation with the IAEA and European Union, suggesting that anyway, Iran's nuclear capability is impervious to bombs and missiles.


Bush Won't Rule Out Action Against Iran Over Nukes.
Reuters.
17 January 2005.
In an NBC news interview, President Bush states that military action against Iran remains an option "if it continues to stonewall the international community about the existence of its nuclear weapons program.".


In response to pressure from the United States aga....
Source : .
December 1993.
In response to pressure from the United States against Czech sales of nuclear components to Iran, the Czech government states that it "has not decided, nor does it intend to decide in the foreseeable future, on any shipments of nuclear technology to Iran." Earlier in the month, the Czech minister of industry and trade had defended a possible deal between Skoda and Iran.

In response to US objections to Russian nuclear as....
FBIS.
30 March 1995.
In response to US objections to Russian nuclear assistance to Iran, Georgiy Kaurov, head of the information directorate of the Russian Ministry for Atomic Energy, says that the nuclear cooperation between the Iran and Russia is in line with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and that Iran's nuclear facilities has been inspected by the IAEA without any violations.



India  signs an agreement to supply Iran with a 10M....
Financial Times.
Source : .
November 1991.
India signs an agreement to supply Iran with a 10MW research reactor, as part of a memorandum of understanding on scientific and technical cooperation. The reactor is to be located at Moallem Kalayeh, a secret uranium enrichment complex near Qazvin. Under pressure from the United States and other countries, India cancels its agreement.


Indian Foreign Minister Sing Solanki signs a tech n....
Lexis-Nexis.
11 November 1991.
Indian Foreign Minister Sing Solanki signs a technical cooperation deal with Iran ensuring the delivery of 10MW reactor to Iran.

Russia: A New Asian Foundation For Thermonuclear Studies Will Design The World's First International Experimental Thermonuclear Reactor.
Atomnoy Energii.
Byulleten' Tsentra Obshchestvennoy Informatsii Po.
29 February 1996.
Info-Tass reports that the Asian Foundation for Thermonuclear Studies, formed as a result of a meeting between representatives of Russia's scientific circles and officials from nuclear ministries and corporations of China, India, and Iran, plans to design the world's first international experimental thermonuclear reactor. Scientists have proposed a design deadline for the reactor for July 1998. Russia's contribution will most likely be in the form of scientific and technical expertise and innovative thinking. [Note: The foundation is also called the Asian Fusion Research Foundation. See 4 and 29 March 1996.].

Intel and Sun Microsystems say they have no curr en....
Lexis-Nexis.
4 February 1999.
Intel and Sun Microsystems say they have no current business with three Russian institutes against whom the United States recently applied sanctions for allegedly aiding Iran's missile and nuclear weapons programs. But the US companies say the Russian institutes may have already acquired their technology.

Interfax reports that Iran and Russia are holding ....
in Gulf 2000, http://www1.columbia.e du/.
20 April 1996.
Interfax reports that Iran and Russia are holding talks on training over 700 Iranian nuclear experts for work in the Bushehr nuclear power plant. The talks are between the Iranians and Russia's Zarubezhatomenergostroy (company for nuclear power engineering abroad), which is engaged in the construction of Bushehr. Other Russian scientific institutions, however, are also considering training Iranian experts.


Interfax reports that Kamal Kharazi, the Iranian f....
FBIS document Russia: Iranian Foreign Minister to Pay 2-day Visit to Moscow 18 Feb.
CEP20020215000207.
15 February 2002.
Interfax reports that Kamal Kharazi, the Iranian foreign minister, will visit Moscow for a two-day visit starting 18 February 2002. The negotiations with Russian officials will focus on weapons of mass destruction, among other issues.


International Atomic Energy Agency Director Genera....
FBIS.
4 July 1995.
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Hans Blix meets with Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev in Moscow. Kozyrev states that Russia welcomes IAEA supervision of Russian programs to construct nuclear reactors in Iran, India, and elsewhere. Blix says that the IAEA is ready to oversee implementation of the Russian-Iran agreement on the completion of the nuclear power station in Bushehr. According to Russian Minister of Atomic Energy Viktor Mikhailov, Russian supervision of the construction of "two to four sets" at Bushehr may be increased.

Amrollahi On Blix Meeting..
IRNA (Tehran).
18 April 1994.
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Hans Blix visits Iran to discuss a nuclear-weapon free zone in the Middle East. Blix also discusses verification and safeguards arrangements in a nuclear-weapon free zone. Blix meets with Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati, Atomic Energy Organization Commission Chairman Reza Amrollahi, the first Deputy to the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Hassan Habibi, and the Deputy to the Speaker of the Majlis, Hassan Ruhani, as well as various members of parliament. Additionally, Blix discusses the possibility of cooperation in technical matters, such as the use of radioisotopes to study rising water levels in the Caspian Sea. Amrollahi states that Blix has supported Iran's proposal to establish a nuclear-free Middle East, which would require that all countries in the region cooperate on the issue.

Blix Visits Iranian Nuclear Sites.
The Iran Brief.
19 July 1997.
International Atomic Energy Agency Director-General Hans Blix arrives in Iran ostensibly to "inspect" two nuclear research centers. An IAEA spokesman says Blix would visit the Bonab nuclear research center in West Azerbaijan province and the center in Mazandaran province. Neither site is subject to IAEA safeguards, and IAEA sources said the agency knows little about them.


IAEA: No Suspicious Nuclear Activities Detected In Iran.
IRNA (Tehran).
16 March 1998.
International Atomic Energy Agency spokesman David Kyd announces that the "IAEA has not detected any suspicious nuclear activities being carried out" in Iran which violate the NPT or any other laws governing non-proliferation. The IAEA team inspected the research center at Isfahan and the experimental reactor at the University of Tehran four times in the last year. The two reactors under construction at Bushehr were not inspected because no form of nuclear fuel has been transferred there yet. Kyd also stresses that the "IAEA [has] never detected any sort of suspicious activity in Iran.".

A U.N. Official to Visit Iran Over Nuclear Sites.
Nazila Fathi.
The New York Times.
2 July 2003.
Iran and the IAEA announce that Mohamed El Baradei will visit Iran on 9 July, for the second time this year. This planned visit came after the unfavorable IAEA report on Iran, after which Hassan Rowhani, the Iranian Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council, invited Dr. El Baradei to visit Iran " to remove technical problems." An Iranian senior official says "I do think this means Iran is moving to sign the [additional] protocol. It is a confirmation that Iran wants to work with the agency.".


Iran announces that a delegation from the Atomic E....
IRNA (Tehran).
10 May 1998.
Iran announces that a delegation from the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran will visit Russia and China to "discuss nuclear cooperation for peaceful purposes." Gholam Reza Aqazadeh, AEOI head, will stay one week in Moscow to discuss nuclear cooperation between Tehran and Moscow, and the completion of the Bushehr power plant. The AEOI plans to make a similar visit to China within the year.

Iran rejects the idea of the United States jointly....
Source : .
23 September 1997.
Iran rejects the idea of the United States jointly monitoring the Bushehr nuclear power plant. "The only authorized body to supervise Iran's nuclear power plant in Bushehr is the International Atomic Energy Agency," says Mahmud Mohammadi, spokesman for Iran's Foreign Ministry. The Iranian news agency IRNA reports that Russian Nuclear Energy Minister Viktor Mikhailov told Iran's ambassador in Moscow that Russia had not offered a joint monitoring agreement to the United States. [Note: See 21 September 1997 for a report of a Russia proposal for joint US-Russian monitoring.].

An Iranian Bomb?.
David Albright.
The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists.
1992.
Iran reportedly signs a secret deal with Kazakhstan to buy four nuclear warheads, but the CIA stops the deal. In an unsuccessful attempt, the Iranians approach the Ulba Metallurgical Plant within the Ust-Kamenogorsk production complex in Kazakhstan in order to purchase beryllium and enriched uranium. The plant makes reactor fuel and metal components for the defense industry and has 600k g of surplus highly enriched uranium. There are conflicting reports as to why the Iranians wanted to purchase the uranium. Reports indicate that the Iranians sought to use the uranium as reactor fuel or for weapons. According to Ergali Bayadilov, Director General of the Kazak Atomic Energy Agency, Iran wanted to purchase safeguarded low-enriched uranium (LEU) to fuel the soon-to-be supplied Russian VVER-1000 [1000MW light-water] reactor. [Note: See 9 July 1995.].


ran says Russia agrees to finish the first react o....
in Gulf 2000, http://www1.columbia.e du/.
20 November 1994.
Iran says Russia agrees to finish the first reactor at the Bushehr nuclear power plant for $800 million. Reuters reports that Russian experts have already started work on the project. An official of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, identified as Mehralizadeh, says work at the plant has continued with a $850 million. [Note: The contract for the plant is signed on 8 January 1995.].

Iranian and Russian officials, including the Russi....
FBIS.
22 October 2002.
Iranian and Russian officials, including the Russian Atomic Energy Minister and the vice president of the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization, meet in Moscow to discuss the construction of the Bushehr nuclear plant. A representative of the Russian Atomic Energy Ministry says that the participants at the meeting discussed " the issue of making an amendment to the Russian-Iranian agreement in the construction of a nuclear power plant in Bushehr, which is concerned with the return of spent nuclear fuel from Iran to Russia. Iran has re-confirmed its readiness to return spent nuclear fuel from Bushehr to Russia.".



Iran Plays With Nuclear Fire As Israel Watches.
n Coughlin.
Sunday Telegraph (London).
1994.
Iranian government representatives visit the Ublinsky Metallurgical Works in Kazakhstan. This site reportedly specializes in uranium and has not been properly guarded for up to two years. The United States asked the Kazakhstani government to block any Iranian transactions. The United States prevents Iran from purchasing beryllium from Kazakhstan, which is one of the few places in world with a beryllium processing plant. After the CIA found out that Iranian agents had visited the Kazakhstan plant, US agents began negotiations with the plant and purchased its entire inventory. The beryllium, which was sufficient for 20 nuclear warheads, was transferred to the United States to be modified for non-military use.



Iranian President Hashemi-Rafsanjani visits the Bu....
Lexis-Nexis.
28 February 1997.
Iranian President Hashemi-Rafsanjani visits the Bushehr nuclear power plant and says, " The Islamic Republic of Iran will employ nuclear power in order to boost its development efforts....The construction and operation of modern power stations is essential for implementing the Islamic Republic of Iran's long-term plans for development and public welfare, in particular for the Iran-1400 [year ending 2001] programme.".

Iran Expects  Russian Nuclear Deal To Go Ahead.
Reuters.
2 July 1995.
Iranian President Rafsanjani says Iran does not have a nuclear weapon program and that this was verified by International Atomic Energy Agency inspections. Rafsanjani believes that Russia should proceed with the sale of nuclear technology to Iran despite the "inappropriate" opposition from the United States.


Businessman Charged by Feds With Aiding  Iran Nuclear Program.
Matt Apuzzo.
Associated Press.
11 January 2005.
Iranian-born businessman Mohammed Farabakhsh is accused of illegally sending pressure sensors and other equipment to the United Arab Emirates, to be transshipped to Iran in support of its nuclear missile program. Federal searches revealed the shipments were destined for Iran's Shahid Hemmat Industrial Group, which has been sanctioned twice already by the United States.


 Iran Nuclear Fuel Deal Stalled Over Fee: Russia.
Reuters.
5 January 2005.
Iran's deal with Russia to start up the Bushehr nuclear plant has been delayed over Russian insistence on payment for spent fuel. Russia's civil nuclear industry negotiates commercial agreements to re-import and dispose of spent fuel sold to clients. Bushehr is scheduled to be launched in early 2006, prior to which the fuel agreement must be signed.


An Iranian Nuclear Chronology, 1987-1982.
Middle East Defense News.
10 October 1991.
Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Alaeddin Borujerdi meets with Indian Prime Minister Narasimha Rao in New Delhi to discuss the purchase of 10MW reactor. [Note: See October 1991 entry for more on Iran-Indian nuclear cooperation.].


Iranian Diplomats On Nuclear Warhead Purchases.
Proliferation Issues.
1992.
Iran's nuclear program has an annual research budget of $800 million, and has major facilities at Tehran University, Moallem Kalayeh, and Isfahan. Iran's nuclear research program has received technical assistance from North Korea, India, and China. Two hundred technicians and more than 50 nuclear scientists from the former Soviet Union have signed agreements with Iran.

Pakistan Promises Not To Provide Nuclear Aid To Iran.
Israel Wire, http://www.israelwire.co m/.
11 June 1998.
Israel Wire reports that Pakistan has assured Israel's ambassadors to the United States and the United Nations that Pakistan will not transfer nuclear technology or materials to Iran or to other Middle Eastern countries. Israeli officials had feared that Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi's visit to Pakistan shortly after its May 1998 nuclear weapons tests was a sign that Pakistan was preparing to sell nuclear technology to Iran.

ITAR-TASS reports that Zarubezhatomenergostroy (Ru....
FBIS.
5 December 1996.
ITAR-TASS reports that Zarubezhatomenergostroy (Russian company for nuclear power engineering abroad) and Atomic Energy Organization of Iran have signed three agreements: for the preparation of designs for building a mine at Saghand; for the technology design and documentation for construction of a uranium ore enrichment plant at Saghand; and for the completion of construction of Block 1 of the Bushehr power station.


UN official: Iran's nuclear program is peaceful.
IRNA (Tehran).
24 August 2002.
Jayantha Dhanapala, the United Nation's Under-Secretary General for Disarmament Affairs, states in a press conference in the Uzbek capital that Iranian-Russian nuclear cooperation is under the supervision of the IAEA, which has yet to observe any violations. Mr. Dhanapala points out that the cooperation between the countries follows a routine economic deal aiming to access new technology.


Indian Expert Doubts Iran Helped Pakistan Nuclear Program.
FBIS.
3 July 1998.
K. Subramanyam, a defense analyst from India, says there is little existing evidence that proves Iran assisted Pakistan with its nuclear program. This statement runs counter to a previous promulgation made by Iftikhar Khan Chaudhry, a Pakistani nuclear scientist in the United States. Chaudhry is one of six nuclear scientists that defected to the United States in protest of alleged discussions among Pakistan policymakers of a pre-emptive strike against India. Subramanyam asserts that rumors of Iranian assistance to Pakistan's nuclear program are exaggerated. "We have not heard of Iran having provided monetary or technological help to Pakistan, facilitating nuclear explosions by the latter last month," he says.


